Freedom of opinion and expression: mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression

194. At the 54th meeting, on 27 March 27 2014, the representative of the United States of America introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.2/Rev.1, sponsored by the United States of America and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Uruguay. Subsequently, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Benin, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cabo Verde, Canada, Egypt, Indonesia, Israel, Jordan, Maldives, Monaco, Montenegro, the Republic of Korea, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Thailand and Ukraine joined the sponsors.

195. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America orally revised the draft resolution.
196. At the same meeting, the President informed that as a consequence of the oral revision, it was no longer necessary to take action on draft text A/HRC/25/L.43.
197. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Italy, on behalf of the European Union, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised.
198. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.
199. At the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.2/Rev.1, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (resolution 25/2).

