Mandate of the Independent Expert on the effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights

261. At the 54th meeting, on 27 March 27 2014, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.28, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Angola, Bangladesh, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Burkina Faso, the Congo, Cuba, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Myanmar, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and the State of Palestine. Subsequently, Belarus, Eritrea, Indonesia, Namibia, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Uruguay and Yemen (on behalf of the Group of Arab States) joined the sponsors.

262. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

263. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

264. At the same meeting, the representative of Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.

265. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, Argentina, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Austria, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Montenegro, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Chile, Mexico, Peru

266. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.28 was adopted by 30 votes to 14, with 3 abstentions (resolution 25/16).

