Promotion of a democratic and equitable international order

255. At the 54th meeting, on 27 March 27 2014, the representative of Cuba introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.27, sponsored by Cuba and co-sponsored by Algeria, Angola, Bangladesh, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), China, the Congo, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Somalia, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and the State of Palestine. Subsequently, Belarus, Eritrea, Indonesia, Namibia, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Senegal, Yemen (on behalf of the Group of Arab States) and Zimbabwe joined the sponsors.

256. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Cuba orally revised the draft resolution.

257. At the same meeting, the representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised.

258. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.

259. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Italy, on behalf of States members of the European Union that are members of the Council, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, Argentina, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Austria, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Montenegro, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Chile, Mexico, Peru

260. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.27, as orally revised, was adopted by 30 votes to 14, with 3 abstentions (resolution 25/15).

