Situation of human rights in Myanmar

370. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Greece, on behalf of the European Union, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.21/Rev.1, sponsored by Greece, on behalf of the European Union, and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, the Republic of Moldova, San Marino, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United States of America. Subsequently, Canada, the Republic of Korea, Switzerland and Turkey joined the sponsors.

371. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Greece, on behalf of the European Union, orally revised the draft resolution.

372. At the same meeting, the representatives of India, the Russian Federation and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised. The representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela also made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised, disassociating the delegation from the consensus on the draft resolution as orally revised.

373. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Myanmar made a statement as the State concerned.

374. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

375. At the same meeting, the representatives of China, Cuba, Japan and Viet Nam made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.

376. Also at the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.21/Rev.1, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (resolution 25/26).

377. At the same meeting, the representative of the Republic of Korea made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.





V. Human rights bodies and mechanisms
A. Complaint procedure
378. At its 30th meeting, on 14 March 2014, and at its 46th meeting, on 24 March, the Human Rights Council held closed meetings of the complaint procedure.


379. At the 47th meeting, on 25 March 2014, the President made a statement on the outcome of the meetings, stating that the Human Rights Council had in the closed meetings examined the human rights situation in Cameroon under the complaint procedure, established pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution 5/1, and had decided to keep the situation under review until its twenty-seventh session.
B. Forum on Minority Issues
380. At the 36th meeting, on 19 March 2014, the Independent Expert on minority issues, Rita Izsák, introduced the recommendations adopted by the Forum on Minority Issues at its sixth session, held on 26 and 27 November 2013 (A/HRC/25/66).
C. General debate on agenda item 5
381. At the 36thmeeting, on 19 March 2014, and at the 43rd meeting, on 21 March 2013, the Human Rights Council held a general debate on agenda item 5, during which the following made statements:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Austria, Botswana (also on behalf Argentina, Australia, Austria, Benin, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America and Uruguay), China, Costa Rica (also on behalf of Chile, Honduras, Peru and Uruguay), Cuba, Greece[22] (on behalf of European Union, Albania, Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Montenegro, Republic of Moldova, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Serbia and Ukraine), Ireland, Italy, Morocco, Pakistan, Russian Federation;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Hungary, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Norway, Sri Lanka;
(c) Observers for international organizations: Council of Europe, Organization of Islamic Cooperation;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Agence Internationale pour le Developpement, Alsalam Foundation, Amnesty International, Article 19 - International Centre Against Censorship (also on behalf of Amnesty International, Asian Legal Resource Centre, Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies, East and Horn of Africa Human Rights Defenders Project (EHAHRD), International Service for Human Rights and Reporters Sans Frontiers International - Reporters Without Borders International), Centre for Human Rights and Peace Advocacy, China Society for Human Rights Studies (CSHRS), Indian Council of South America (CISA), International Association of Schools of Social Work, International Buddhist Relief Organisation, International Movement Against All Forms of Discrimination and Racism (IMADR), International Muslim Women's Union, International Service for Human Rights, Japanese Workers' Committee for Human Rights, Liberation, Maryam Ghasemi Educational Charity Institute, Organization for Defending Victims of Violence, Rencontre Africaine pour la defense des droits de l'homme, United Nations Watch, Verein Sudwind Entwicklungspolitik, World Barua Organization (WBO), World Muslim Congress.
382. At the 36th meeting, on 19 March 2014, statements in exercise of the right of reply were made by the representatives of Algeria, China and the Russian Federation.
383. At the 43rd meeting, on 21 March 2014, a statement in exercise of the right of reply was made by the representative of Morocco.
384. At the same meeting, statements in exercise of a second right of reply were made by the representatives of Algeria and Morocco.



VI. Universal periodic review
385. Pursuant to General Assembly resolution 60/251, Council resolutions 5/1 and 16/21, Council decision 17/119 and President’s statements PRST/8/1 and PRST/9/2 on modalities and practices for the universal periodic review process, the Council considered the outcome of the reviews conducted during the seventeenth session of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review held from October 21 to November 1, 2013.
386. In accordance with resolution 5/1, the President outlined that all recommendations must be part of the final document of the UPR and accordingly, the State under Review should clearly communicate its position on all recommendations either by indicating that it “supports” or “notes” the concerned recommendations.
A. Consideration of the universal periodic review outcomes
387. In accordance with paragraph 4.3 of President’s statement 8/1, the following section contains a summary of the views expressed on the outcome by States under review, Member and Observer States of the Council, as well as general comments made by other relevant stakeholders before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary.
Saudi Arabia

388. The review of Saudi Arabia was held on 21 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Saudi Arabia in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/SAU/1);
