The right to education of persons with disabilities

295. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Mexico introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.30, sponsored by Mexico and New Zealand and co-sponsored by Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Maldives, Montenegro, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, San Marino, Senegal, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, the Sudan, Sweden, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Turkey, the United States of America, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Algeria, Angola, Armenia, Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Ethiopia, Haiti, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Luxembourg, Malta, Morocco, Namibia, Nicaragua, Philippines, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, Switzerland, Ukraine and the State of Palestine joined the sponsors.

296. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

297. Also at the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.30 was adopted without a vote (resolution 25/20).

Human rights and the environment

298. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Costa Rica introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.31, sponsored by Costa Rica, Maldives, Morocco, Peru, Slovenia, Switzerland and Uruguay and co-sponsored by Austria, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, France, Gabon, Georgia, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Spain and Tunisia. Subsequently, Albania, Angola, Australia, Belgium, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Djibouti, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, Germany, Haiti, Ireland, Jordan, Kenya, Libya, Liechtenstein, Madagascar, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, the Sudan, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Vanuatu, Yemen and the State of Palestine joined the sponsors.

299. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Costa Rica orally revised the draft resolution.

300. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.

301. Also at the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.31, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (resolution 25/21).

Ensuring use of remotely piloted aircraft or armed drones in counter-terrorism and military operations in accordance with international law, including international human rights and humanitarian law

302. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Pakistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.32, sponsored by Pakistan and co-sponsored by Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Ecuador, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Switzerland, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Yemen. Subsequently, Brazil, Egypt, Nicaragua and South Africa joined the sponsors.

303. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

304. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

305. At the same meeting, the representatives of France, Germany (also on behalf of the Czech Republic), India, Ireland, the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.

306. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, Argentina, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Gabon, Indonesia, Ireland, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

France, Japan, Republic of Korea, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Austria, Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, Ethiopia, Germany, India, Italy, Montenegro, Namibia, Romania, United Arab Emirates

307. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.32 was adopted by 27 votes to 6, with 14 abstentions (resolution 25/22).

308. At the 56th meeting, on 28 March 2014, the representative of Cuba made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.

The promotion and protection of human rights in the context of peaceful protests

309. At the 56th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Switzerland introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.20, sponsored by Costa Rica, Switzerland and Turkey and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Colombia, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, the Netherlands, Norway, Panama, Poland, the Republic of Moldova, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Tunisia and the United States of America. Subsequently, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Cyprus, France, Honduras, Israel, Japan, Malta, Montenegro, Morocco, New Zealand, Peru, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Senegal, Slovenia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay joined the sponsors.

310. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Costa Rica orally revised the draft resolution.

311. At the same meeting, South Africa withdrew its amendment A/HRC/25/L.51 to this draft resolution.

312. Also at the same meeting, the representative of South Africa introduced amendments A/HRC/25/L.48, A/HRC/25/L.49, A/HRC/25/L.50 and A/HRC/25/L.52 to the draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.20. Amendments A/HRC/24/L.48, A/HRC/24/L.49 and A/HRC/24/L.50 were sponsored by Algeria, Bahrain, Belarus, China, Cuba, Egypt, Ethiopia, India, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka joined the sponsors. Amendment A/HRC/24/L.52 was sponsored by Algeria, Bahrain, Belarus, China, Cuba, Egypt, India, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka joined the sponsors.

313. At the same meeting, the representatives of Benin, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Maldives and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

314. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution. The Chief of OHCHR Finance and Budget Section made a statement in relation to the budgetary implications of the draft resolution.

315. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Costa Rica a recorded vote was taken on amendment A/HRC/25/L.48. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, China, Cuba, Ethiopia, India, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Namibia, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Brazil, Burkina Faso, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon, Indonesia, Morocco, Philippines, Sierra Leone

316. Amendment A/HRC/25/L.48 was rejected by 16 votes to 22, with 9 abstentions.

317. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Costa Rica a recorded vote was taken on amendment A/HRC/25/L.49. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, China, Cuba, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Namibia, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Brazil, Burkina Faso, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon, Morocco, Philippines, Sierra Leone

318. Amendment A/HRC/25/L.49 was rejected by 17 votes to 22, with 8 abstentions.

319. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Costa Rica a recorded vote was taken on amendment A/HRC/25/L.50. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, China, Congo, Cuba, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Namibia, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Morocco, Philippines, Sierra Leone

320. Amendment A/HRC/25/L.50 was rejected by 19 votes to 23, with 5 abstentions.

321. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Costa Rica a recorded vote was taken on amendment A/HRC/25/L.52. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, China, Congo, Cuba, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Namibia, Pakistan, Philippines[20], Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon, Morocco

322. Amendment A/HRC/25/L.52 was rejected by 20 votes to 23, with 4 abstentions.

323. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China, Cuba, India, the Russian Federation, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.

324. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of South Africa, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution as orally revised. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Gabon, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Peru, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Romania, Sierra Leone, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Against:

China, Cuba, India, Kenya, Pakistan, Russian Federation, South Africa, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Abstaining:

Algeria, Congo, Ethiopia, Kuwait, Namibia, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates

325. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.20 was adopted by 31 votes to 9, with 7 abstentions (resolution 25/38).

326. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Algeria and Japan made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.



IV. Human rights situations that require the Council’s attention
A. Interactive dialogue with the commission of inquiry on human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
327. At the 31st meeting, on 17 March 2014, the Chairperson of the commission of inquiry on human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Michael Kirby, presented the report of the commission (A/HRC/25/63), pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution 22/13.
328. At the same meeting, the representative of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea made a statement as the State concerned.
329. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the same meeting, on the same day, the following made statements:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Argentina, Austria, Botswana, Chile, China, Cuba, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, Montenegro, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Albania, Australia, Belarus, Canada, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Myanmar, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Uruguay, Zimbabwe;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, International Commission of Jurists, International Service for Human Rights, Jubilee Campaign, People for Successful Corean Reunification, United Nations Watch.
330. At the same meeting, the Chairperson of the commission of inquiry answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
B. Interactive dialogue with the commission of inquiry on the Syrian Arab Republic
331. At the 33rd meeting, on 18 March 2014, the Chairperson of the commission of inquiry on the Syrian Arab Republic, Paulo Sérgio Pinheiro, presented the report of the commission (A/HRC/25/65), pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution S-17/1.
332. At the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made a statement as the State concerned.
333. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the 33rd and 34th meetings, on the same day, the following made statements:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Morocco, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Australia, Bahrain, Belarus, Belgium, Canada, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark (also on behalf of Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden), Ecuador, Egypt, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Libya, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Slovakia, Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Uruguay;
(c) Observer for United Nations entities, specialized agencies and related organizations: United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF);
(d) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(e) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies, International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists, International Commission of Jurists, International Federation for Human Rights Leagues (also on behalf of Reporters Sans Frontiers International - Reporters Without Borders International), Maarij Foundation for Peace and Development, Presse Embleme Campagne, Syriac Universal Alliance, The. Federation Syriaque International.
334. At the 34th meeting, on the same day, the Chairperson of the commission of inquiry answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
C. Interactive dialogue with special procedures mandate holders
Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
335. At the 31st meeting, on 17 March 2014, the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ahmed Shaheed, presented his report (A/HRC/25/61).
336. At the same meeting, the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran made a statement as the State concerned.
337. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the 31st and 32nd meetings, on the same day, the following made statements and asked the Special Rapporteur questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Botswana, China, Cuba, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Maldives, Pakistan, Russian Federation, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Australia, Belarus, Belgium, Canada, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Myanmar, New Zealand, Norway, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Zimbabwe;
(c) Observer for United Nations entities, specialized agencies and related organizations: United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF);
(d) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(e) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Baha'i International Community, European Centre for Law and Justice, Iranian Elite Research Center, Islamic Women’s Institue of Iran, Lawyers for Lawyers, Maryam Ghasemi Educational Charity Institute, Prevention Association of Social Harms (PASH) (also on behalf of Organization for Defending Victims of Violence), Verein Sudwind Entwicklungspolitik (also on behalf of Human Rights Watch).
338. At the same meeting, the Special Rapporteur answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar
339. At the 32nd meeting, on 17 March 2014, the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar, Tomás Ojea Quintana, presented his reports (A/HRC/25/64 and Add.1).
340. At the same meeting, the representative of Myanmar made a statement as the State concerned.
341. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the same meeting, on the same day, the following made statements and asked the Special Rapporteur questions:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Argentina, China, Cuba, Czech Republic, France, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Philippines (on behalf of the Association of South East Asian Nations), Republic of Korea, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Asian Forum for Human Rights and Development, Human Rights Now, Human Rights Watch, International Commission of Jurists, International Educational Development, Inc., Jubilee Campaign, Lawyers for Lawyers (also on behalf of Lawyers’ Rights Watch Canada).
342. At the same meeting, the Special Rapporteur answered questions and made his concluding remarks.
D. General debate on agenda item 4
343. At the 34th and 35th meetings, on 18 March 2014, the Human Rights Council held a general debate on agenda item 4, during which the following made statements:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Algeria, Austria, China, Cuba, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Greece[21] (on behalf of the European Union, Albania, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Montenegro and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia), Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Montenegro, Nicaragua21 (on behalf of Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America – Peoples’ Trade Agreement), Pakistan (on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation), Russian Federation, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Australia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Canada, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ecuador, Georgia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Myanmar, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sudan, Switzerland;
(c) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Action internationale pour la paix et le développement dans la région des Grands Lacs, Agence Internationale pour le Developpement, Alsalam Foundation, Amnesty International, Baha'i International Community, Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies, Canners International Permanent Committee, Center for Inquiry, Centre Europe - Tiers Monde - Europe-Third World Centre, Centre for Human Rights and Peace Advocacy, Centro de Estudios Legales y Sociales (CELS) Asociación Civil, CIVICUS - World Alliance for Citizen Participation, Comité International pour le Respect et l'Application de la Charte Africaine des Droits de l'Homme et des Peuples (CIRAC), Commission to Study the Organization of Peace, East and Horn of Africa Human Rights Defenders Project, Edmund Rice International Limited (also on behalf of Franciscans International), European Centre for Law and Justice, Federatie van Nederlandse Verenigingen tot Integratie Van Homoseksualiteit – COC Nederland (also on behalf of International Lesbian and Gay Association), France Libertés : Fondation Danielle Mitterrand (also on behalf of Mouvement contre le racisme et pour l'amitié entre les peuples), Franciscans International (also on behalf of World Organisation Against Torture (OMCT)), General Arab Women Federation, Human Rights House Foundation, Human Rights Law Centre, Human Rights Watch, Indian Council of South America (CISA), International Association for Democracy in Africa, International Association of Democratic Lawyers (IADL), International Buddhist Foundation (IBF), International Buddhist Relief Organisation, International Educational Development, Inc. (also on behalf of France Libertés : Fondation Danielle Mitterrand), International Federation for Human Rights Leagues, International Fellowship of Reconciliation, International Humanist and Ethical Union, International Institute for Peace, International Movement Against All Forms of Discrimination and Racism (IMADR), International Muslim Women's Union, International Organization for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, Islamic Women's Institue of Iran, Le Collectif des Femmes Africaines du Hainaut, Liberation, Maarij Foundation for Peace and Development, Maryam Ghasemi Educational Charity Institute, Minority Rights Group, Organisation pour la Communication en Afrique et de Promotion de la Cooperation Economique Internationale - OCAPROCE Internationale, Organization for Defending Victims of Violence, Presse Embleme Campagne, Rencontre Africaine pour la defense des droits de l'homme, Society for Threatened Peoples, Society of Iranian Women Advocating Sustainable Development of Environment, Society Studies Centre (MADA ssc), Syriac Universal Alliance, The. Federation Syriaque International, Touro Law Center, The Institute on Human Rights and The Holocaust, Union of Arab Jurists, United Nations Watch, United Schools International, United Towns Agency for North-South Cooperation, Verein Sudwind Entwicklungspolitik, Vivekananda Sevakendra-O-Sishu Uddyan, Women's Human Rights International Association, World Barua Organization (WBO), World Environment and Resources Council (WERC), World Muslim Congress.

344. At the 35th meeting, on the same day, statements in exercise of the right of reply were made by the representatives of Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, China, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Egypt, Eritrea, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan, Mauritania, Morocco, Sri Lanka, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
345. At the same meeting, statements in exercise of a second right of reply were made by the representatives of Azerbaijan, Armenia, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and Japan.
E. Consideration of and action on draft proposals
The continuing grave deterioration of the human rights and humanitarian situation in the Syrian Arab Republic

346. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representatives of Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.7, sponsored by France, Germany, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Canada, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Latvia, Luxembourg, Maldives, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United Arab Emirates. Subsequently, Botswana, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Israel, Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Kitts and Nevis, San Marino, Senegal, Switzerland and Tunisia joined the sponsors.

347. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Algeria, Italy (on behalf of the European Union), Saudi Arabia, the Russian Federation and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

348. At the same meeting, the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made a statement as the State concerned.

349. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

350. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China, Cuba and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.

351. At the same meeting, at the request of the Russian Federation, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Gabon, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Against:

China, Cuba, Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)

Abstaining:

Algeria, Congo, Ethiopia, India, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Namibia, Pakistan, Philippines, South Africa, Viet Nam

352. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.7 was adopted by 32 votes to 4, with 11 abstentions (resolution 25/23).

353. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Argentina made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.

Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran

354. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Sweden introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.9, sponsored by Panama, the Republic of Moldova, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United States of America and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Subsequently, Costa Rica, Israel, Malta, New Zealand and Saint Kitts and Nevis joined the sponsors.

355. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of France, Italy (on behalf of the European Union, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and the Republic of Moldova), Pakistan, the Russian Federation, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

356. At the same meeting, the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran made a statement as the State concerned.

357. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

358. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Algeria, China, Cuba, Japan, Republic of Korea and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.

359. At the same meeting, at the request of Pakistan, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Argentina, Austria, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Montenegro, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Against:

China, Cuba, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Abstaining:

Algeria, Benin, Burkina Faso, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Gabon, Kenya, Kuwait, Morocco, Namibia, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, United Arab Emirates

360. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.9 was adopted by 21 votes to 9, with 16 abstentions (resolution 25/24).

361. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Brazil and Indonesia made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.

Situation of human rights in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea

362. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representatives of Greece, on behalf of the European Union, and Japan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.17, sponsored by Greece, on behalf of the European Union, and Japan and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Georgia, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Montenegro, New Zealand, Norway, Republic of Korea, Switzerland, Turkey and the United States of America. Subsequently, Botswana, Chile, Costa Rica, Honduras, Israel, Maldives, the Republic of Moldova, San Marino and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined the sponsors.

363. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Cuba made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

364. At the same meeting, the representative of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea made a statement as the State concerned.

365. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

366. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of China, Indonesia and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.

367. At the same meeting, at the request of Cuba, a recorded vote was taken on the draft resolution. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Peru, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Romania, Sierra Leone, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Against:

China, Cuba, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Abstaining:

Algeria, Congo, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Kuwait, Namibia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa



368. Draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.17 was adopted by 30 votes to 6, with 11 abstentions (resolution 25/25).

369. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Viet Nam made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.

Situation of human rights in Myanmar

370. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Greece, on behalf of the European Union, introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.21/Rev.1, sponsored by Greece, on behalf of the European Union, and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, the Republic of Moldova, San Marino, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the United States of America. Subsequently, Canada, the Republic of Korea, Switzerland and Turkey joined the sponsors.

371. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Greece, on behalf of the European Union, orally revised the draft resolution.

372. At the same meeting, the representatives of India, the Russian Federation and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised. The representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela also made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised, disassociating the delegation from the consensus on the draft resolution as orally revised.

373. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Myanmar made a statement as the State concerned.

374. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

375. At the same meeting, the representatives of China, Cuba, Japan and Viet Nam made statements in explanation of vote before the vote.

376. Also at the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.21/Rev.1, as orally revised, was adopted without a vote (resolution 25/26).

377. At the same meeting, the representative of the Republic of Korea made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.





V. Human rights bodies and mechanisms
A. Complaint procedure
378. At its 30th meeting, on 14 March 2014, and at its 46th meeting, on 24 March, the Human Rights Council held closed meetings of the complaint procedure.


379. At the 47th meeting, on 25 March 2014, the President made a statement on the outcome of the meetings, stating that the Human Rights Council had in the closed meetings examined the human rights situation in Cameroon under the complaint procedure, established pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution 5/1, and had decided to keep the situation under review until its twenty-seventh session.
B. Forum on Minority Issues
380. At the 36th meeting, on 19 March 2014, the Independent Expert on minority issues, Rita Izsák, introduced the recommendations adopted by the Forum on Minority Issues at its sixth session, held on 26 and 27 November 2013 (A/HRC/25/66).
C. General debate on agenda item 5
381. At the 36thmeeting, on 19 March 2014, and at the 43rd meeting, on 21 March 2013, the Human Rights Council held a general debate on agenda item 5, during which the following made statements:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Austria, Botswana (also on behalf Argentina, Australia, Austria, Benin, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America and Uruguay), China, Costa Rica (also on behalf of Chile, Honduras, Peru and Uruguay), Cuba, Greece[22] (on behalf of European Union, Albania, Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Montenegro, Republic of Moldova, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Serbia and Ukraine), Ireland, Italy, Morocco, Pakistan, Russian Federation;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Hungary, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Norway, Sri Lanka;
(c) Observers for international organizations: Council of Europe, Organization of Islamic Cooperation;
(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Agence Internationale pour le Developpement, Alsalam Foundation, Amnesty International, Article 19 - International Centre Against Censorship (also on behalf of Amnesty International, Asian Legal Resource Centre, Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies, East and Horn of Africa Human Rights Defenders Project (EHAHRD), International Service for Human Rights and Reporters Sans Frontiers International - Reporters Without Borders International), Centre for Human Rights and Peace Advocacy, China Society for Human Rights Studies (CSHRS), Indian Council of South America (CISA), International Association of Schools of Social Work, International Buddhist Relief Organisation, International Movement Against All Forms of Discrimination and Racism (IMADR), International Muslim Women's Union, International Service for Human Rights, Japanese Workers' Committee for Human Rights, Liberation, Maryam Ghasemi Educational Charity Institute, Organization for Defending Victims of Violence, Rencontre Africaine pour la defense des droits de l'homme, United Nations Watch, Verein Sudwind Entwicklungspolitik, World Barua Organization (WBO), World Muslim Congress.
382. At the 36th meeting, on 19 March 2014, statements in exercise of the right of reply were made by the representatives of Algeria, China and the Russian Federation.
383. At the 43rd meeting, on 21 March 2014, a statement in exercise of the right of reply was made by the representative of Morocco.
384. At the same meeting, statements in exercise of a second right of reply were made by the representatives of Algeria and Morocco.



VI. Universal periodic review
385. Pursuant to General Assembly resolution 60/251, Council resolutions 5/1 and 16/21, Council decision 17/119 and President’s statements PRST/8/1 and PRST/9/2 on modalities and practices for the universal periodic review process, the Council considered the outcome of the reviews conducted during the seventeenth session of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review held from October 21 to November 1, 2013.
386. In accordance with resolution 5/1, the President outlined that all recommendations must be part of the final document of the UPR and accordingly, the State under Review should clearly communicate its position on all recommendations either by indicating that it “supports” or “notes” the concerned recommendations.
A. Consideration of the universal periodic review outcomes
387. In accordance with paragraph 4.3 of President’s statement 8/1, the following section contains a summary of the views expressed on the outcome by States under review, Member and Observer States of the Council, as well as general comments made by other relevant stakeholders before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary.
Saudi Arabia

388. The review of Saudi Arabia was held on 21 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Saudi Arabia in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/SAU/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/SAU/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/SAU/3).
389. At its 38th meeting, on 19 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Saudi Arabia (see section C below).
390. The outcome of the review of Saudi Arabia comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/3), the views of Saudi Arabia concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group (see also A/HRC/25/3/Add.1).
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
391. The Head of delegation congratulated the President and expressed his appreciation for the continuing efforts of the High Commissioner for Human Rights in promoting and protecting human rights. He thanked all delegations for their participation and for submitting important recommendations to contribute to their quest for the protection and promotion of human rights and looked forward to a substantive and constructive dialogue.
392. He emphasized that the two hundred and twenty-five recommendations received the greatest attention at different levels. They were first studied by the Council of the Human Rights Commission, and then a High Level Committee that was formed out of thirteen (13) government entities to examine those recommendations. Several meetings have been held in different provinces with the participation of representatives of the National Human Rights and civil society institutions, academia to debate on the recommendations and propose effective ways of implementation. Those meetings elaborated a comprehensive national vision, which they relied upon in evaluating their position towards those recommendations.
393. The head of delegation explained the position on the non-supported recommendations, as they this was either due to conflict with constitutional, legal or cultural principles of the Kingdom or because they were in contradiction with the principles of the review or included erroneous allegations.
394. With respect to the implementation mechanism, the head of delegation stated that a Royal Directive was issued to the concerned parties, to take the necessary action for the application and enforcement of the supported recommendations. The Human Rights Commission will work with all relevant parties to follow up the implementation of the said Directive. He informed that eighty-eight of the recommendations that were approved, either totally or partially, were currently implemented on the ground, or are under implementation. With regard to accession to the Human Rights international instruments, he noted that the Kingdom has recently ratified the ILO Convention No. 138 regarding the Minimum Age for Admission to Employment and accession to a number of other human rights international instruments, is currently being considered.
395. The head of delegation informed that concerning legislative and legal reforms, and enhancing criminal justice, amendments have been recently made to the Criminal Procedure Code and the legal and Board of Grievances proceedings systems as part of their efforts to develop the judicial system, to consolidate Right and Justice, through and independent judiciary that provides sufficient guarantees to establish fairness and protect rights of every one, through accountability according to fair and impartial laws. He reiterated that the Kingdom judicial system is bound by the incrimination and punishment principle, as stipulated in Article 38 of the Basic Law of Governance. He stated that the judiciary gives great attention to the principle of public hearings, and the Human Rights Commission continues to attend trial sessions, which are also attended by representatives of the National Society for Human Rights and the media. While in the area of judicial capacity-building, he informed of the cooperation among different actors inside and outside the Kingdom, to organize and hold several training courses and workshops. The implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding signed between Saudi Arabia and the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights has been initiated. The Memorandum aims at strengthening the capacity of national competencies working in the field of human rights, and a training program on international mechanisms for human rights has been already organized.
396. The delegation informed of the measures taken to fight domestic violence, such as the issuance of the regulation on “protection from abuse,” which aims to protect members of society from exploitation and maltreatment, and to monitor and document any cases of violence.
397. The delegation reminded of the Directive of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz on enabling women to participate in municipal election as candidates and voters, as women will be participating in the coming municipal elections, which will contribute to the promotion of their role in political, economic and social life.
398. The head of delegation informed of the government actions to promote and strengthen the role of civil society, through approval of the establishment of several institutions and public associations working in many areas of Human Rights, supporting and enabling them to operate with full independence and propose several regulations that were adopted by the legislative authority. In the area of disseminating the culture of human rights, the delegation said that a comprehensive national plan has been prepared with the participation of all relevant government agencies and civil society organizations.
399. The delegation emphasized Saudi Arabia appreciation to the role of migrant workers and was keen to create an appropriate and convenient working environment; through establishing laws and regulations and developing mechanisms and procedures to define their rights and their duties, without discrimination to ensure a decent and safe life, and the most recent development in this respect was the "regulation of domestic workers and the like,". In this context, they launched, recently the “Musaned” Awareness Program, which aims to introduce this regulation and educate them on how to lodge complaints and seek remedies, at the same time they launched the “wage protection” program, dealing with complaints on wages and employment benefits. They described how they worked to preserve the rights of foreign labour by establishing a number of rules and procedures to correct the status of the violators of residency and labour laws, through a campaign which achieved great success in enabling a great number of offenders to benefit from the grace period and the facilities given, by issuing legal work and residency permits so they can rectify their status.
400. The head of delegation emphasized that the promotion and protection of human rights is a strategic choice of the Kingdom, it is the backbone of the holistic development policy adopted by the State.
2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
401. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Saudi Arabia, 13 delegations made statements. The statements of the delegations that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[23] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.
402. Lebanon made two comments on the report, the approach and methodology adopted by Saudi Arabia to produce their report, in which the recommendations were thematically categorized in order to ensure transparency and facilitate the process of implementation of the supported recommendations. It welcomed the supporting of many recommendations as it showed openness to the Review process.

403. Libya welcomed the efforts by Saudi Arabia to implement the supported recommendations which reflect the positive approach toward the international mechanisms and the Human Rights Council. It appreciated the incorporation of human rights in the political, social and economic reform process, which led to positive results, in the educational and health aspects. It noted that Saudi Arabia did not support specific recommendations due to religious, cultural specificity and social regards.

404. Malaysia appreciated Saudi Arabia for its engagement in the UPR process and was pleased with their response to various comments and questions made by member states during the interactive dialogue. It applauded Saudi Arabia for its efforts to further promote and protect human rights. The delegation noted that it was aware of advancements in the promotion and protection of human rights, while time and space are necessary.
405. Montenegro welcomed the updated report on the situation of human rights protection and promotion in Saudi Arabia. They applaud the openness of the Government during the examination process and its acceptance of recommendations made my member states during the interactive dialogue. Montenegro encouraged Saudi Arabia to further strengthen its legislative framework for the protection and promotion of human rights in accordance with international law standards, particularly the ICCPR and its optional protocols.
406. Morocco thanked Saudi Arabia on the additional information and clarifications on the developments and procedures adopted since the submission of their report for the second cycle of the UPR. Morocco commended Saudi Arabia efforts to promote and protect human rights through strengthening and developing the relative national institutional and legislative framework and its consultation with civil society in studying the recommendations. Morocco noted the acceptance of its two recommendations related to adopting a personal status law, to strengthen the promotion of women rights and their legal capacity.

407. Oman welcomed the positive measures implemented by Saudi Arabia to promote and protect human rights, through the adoption of development policies, ensuring the independence of the judiciary, the enrollment of women in public life, and the integration of women in the Consultative Council, the municipal councils and establishing health care centers. It noted that it understand the reasons for rejecting several recommendations.

408. Pakistan welcomed the update on Saudi Arabia 2nd UPR report. Pakistan appreciated the Governments acceptance of most of the recommendations during the UPR working group session including those made by Pakistan. They highly valued Saudi Arabia’s constructive engagement with UPR mechanism and their noteworthy developments of establishing National Society for Human Rights and accession to important international conventions as it reflects its commitments to the human rights of its people.

409. Philippines commended Saudi Arabia’s acceptance many recommendations during the second cycle. Philippines recalled the country’s bilateral labor agreement with them for the enhancement of protection mechanism for household service workers. Saudi Arabia’s acceptance of Philippines recommendation to protect rights of household service workers and to protect migrant workers and their families builds on the agreement positively. They hoped that Saudi Arabia considers ratifying more core human rights conventions, including the ICMRW.
410. Qatar noted the adopted measures by Saudi Arabia to protect and promote human rights. It appreciated the acceptance of the two recommendations that Qatar made during the interactive dialogue and commended its positive approach to the universal periodic review and the cooperation with the human rights council, in order to ensure the fulfilment of its international human rights obligations.
411. Senegal welcomed Saudi Arabia’s constructive dialogue and its cooperation with the UPR mechanism. It took note of the update provided and the continued commitment by the government to protect and promote human rights. The delegation encouraged Saudi Arabia to continue its effort at strengthening protective measures for women and migrant workers.
412. South Sudan congratulated Saudi Arabia for its election to the Council and for their active participation in the UPR process and congratulated them for their efforts at implementing measures to promote and protect human rights locally and globally. They commended the achievements of the Kingdom in all areas of human rights, especially in health and education fields. The delegation was pleased with Saudi Arabia’s acceptance of their own recommendation.
413. Sri Lanka thanked Saudi Arabia for their constructive engagement during the second cycle of the UPR. It notes that the majority of the recommendations as well as its own have been accepted. The delegation was encouraged by the Governments measures to promote the empowerment of women and protection of their rights including the national campaign to raise women’s awareness of the laws and measures in place to protect their rights. They also commended the efforts to provide social welfare to disadvantaged groups along with other economic, social, and cultural rights.
414. Egypt commended the positive approach of Saudi Arabia in cooperating with the international human rights mechanisms, particularly, the universal periodic review, as reflected by supporting about 84 per cent of the recommendations, including those made by Egypt. It encouraged them to continue integrating its legal framework and policies to strengthen human rights, especially in strengthening the protection and respect of women rights, enhance the protection of migrant workers’ rights, and develop its cooperation with human rights mechanisms. It called on enhancing the protection measures to protect migrant workers including the means of remedies and continue its openness with civil society during the implementation of the UPR recommendations.

3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
415. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Saudi Arabia, 9 other stakeholders made statements. The statements of the stakeholders that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[24] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.

416. International Federation for Human Rights Leagues regretted Saudi Arabia’s rejection of key recommendations to withdraw general reservations to the CEDAW convention and to invite the UN Working Group on discrimination against women to visit the country. It urged the Government to revoke the male guardianship system and abolish the gender segregation policy. FDIH is concerned about Saudi Arabia’s “partial acceptance” of recommendations relating to civil and political rights. It urged the authorities to put an end to judicial harassment of human rights defenders and peaceful political activists and to set a time frame for the adoption of law on associations in line with international standards.
417. Human Rights Watch stated that the authorities have intensified efforts to repress and silence peaceful dissidents and human rights activists. It regretted that they either partially accepted or did not respond to recommendations to guarantee freedom of expression and belief. Last year they harassed, investigated, prosecuted, and jailed prominent peaceful dissidents and human rights activists on vague charges. The new terrorism law was of concern as it contains serious flaws. It was concerned over religious freedom and discrimination against Shia’s. It noted the deportation of at least 250000 foreign workers including at least 12,000 Somalis without allowing them to claims for refugee. It regretted the rejection of recommendations on removing reservations to CEDAW.
418. Center for Inquiry noted the US$1million donation to the UN Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, yet the situation of women remains deplorable where the cornerstone of this patriarchal abuse is the male guardianship system as this violates their fundamental human rights and enables violence against them. It stated that in a state where judges and clerics are granted license to interpret cases with prejudices, women remain unprotected and without a voice, due to this system, nearly 2 in 3 women are unemployed. It welcomed progress in women’s rights and gender de-segregation, however, it is clear to them that this will be in vain if male guardianship is not overturned and abolished and urged for monitory the process.
419. Indian Council of South America commended Saudi Arabia for increasing its support to OHCHR and the donation to the international counter-terrorism centre (United Nations Counter-Terrorism Centre). It noted the continued work toward acceding to the ICCPR and the ICESCR as well as other international human rights instruments. It recommend that it continue addressing the disadvantage that women face and to adopt legal measures for violence against women. It asked them to continue to improve the situation of migrants and labour and children’s rights. It asked for issuing a moratorium on death penalty and to study other possibilities other than death penalty.
420. Amnesty International was concerned over longstanding systemic discrimination, particularly against women and minorities, and their unwillingness to effectively address these violations as reflected in the rejection of recommendations to ratify key human rights treaties and allowing access to the mechanisms and INGOs. It regretted the rejection of recommendations to enact and implement a law on associations and were concerned over sentencing most of the NGOs founders to lengthy prison terms after grossly unfair trials. It witnessed a continued ban and increased reprisal against peaceful protests. The new anti-terrorism law was of a concern as it defines terrorist crimes in vague terms. It was concerned with freedom of belief and religion. It noted that death penalty is applied to juveniles and continues to be applied to a wide range of non-lethal crimes.
421. United Nations Watch questioned if the report of Saudi Arabia lived up to the goal of promoting and protecting human rights. It quoted some countries recommendations that commended Saudi Arabia’s for its efforts to promote and protect human rights and particularly women and children’s rights and praised its accession to several instruments. It considered those applauds as an unfair representation of the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia, as there are zero women, religious, minority rights and Saudi Arabia has an entrenched system of gender apartheid and should never have been elected as a member of the Council.

422. Organisation pour la Communication en Afrique et de Promotion de la Cooperation Economique Internationale congratulated Saudi Arabia for taking measures to ensure access of women to labour market and the progress made in the access of women to education. It also welcomed the progress in the participation of women in municipal elections to vote and as candidates through the amendments to the law. It noted an increase of 8% of women in the public sector compared to the previous year. OCAPROCE were concerned with domestic violence and recommended while welcoming the progress made, more efforts needed to promote gender equality both in law and in practice. It encouraged the withdrawal of reservations to CEDAW and ratifying other international instruments.
423. Organization for Defending Victims of Violence stated that there has been systematic discrimination and hostility against religious minorities especially Shia citizens, as they are banned from performing their religious rituals. Shia’s are not given the right to appeal court decisions. They face serious restrictions for job opportunities and government positions. It noted the new counter terrorism law that criminalizes any speech critical of the government or any attempts to make reforms or fight against corruption and discrimination and grants the police extensive powers for arbitrary arrests of human right activists without being monitored by the judiciary. ODVV called for promoting and protecting interfaith dialogue.
424. Rencontre Africaine pour la defense des droits de l'homme acknowledge the adoption of ILO’s provisions pertaining to children and the progress in promoting women’s rights, in establishing mechanisms for women’s advancement and protection form violence. It acknowledged efforts in streamlining labor situation, combating human trafficking and improving the protection of the rights of migrant workers. It called on ratifying main human rights instruments, and accelerate accession to ICCPR, ICESCR and CEDAW. It encouraged introducing legislation, measures and practices to ensure the elimination of discrimination against women, as well as strengthening institutional and legal protection of human rights. It urged taking steps to abolish the male guardianship over women and called for extending invitation to all Special Reporters.

4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
425. The President stated that based on the information provided out of 225 recommendations received, 151 enjoy the support of Saudi Arabia and the rest are noted.
426. The head of delegation stated that he listened with interest to the presentation of States and Civil Society, and he emphasized that they are proud of its reliance and abidance by the Islamic Sharia, and proud that they are member of this distinguished Council. He emphasized that the success of the UPR depends on several key factors, and particularly, objectivity, which can contribute in achieving the goals of the UPR. Persistence is another important factor; and this requires supporting this mechanism and preventing any attempts to defeat it. Another factor to take into account is the cultural diversity of all countries, as the difference between cultures of the world is an undeniable and the attempts to impose certain cultures on communities in matters of human rights brings more harm than good to those same human rights. Hence, it is necessary to take into account the cultural diversity and reinvest it in the protection and promotion of human rights, and that this should be considered as part of the concept of “universal human rights.”
Senegal

427. The review of Senegal was held on 21 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Senegal in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/SEN/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/SEN/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/SEN/3).
428. At its 38th meeting, on 19 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Senegal (see section C below).
429. The outcome of the review of Senegal comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/4), the views of Senegal concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group (see also A/HRC/25/4/Add.1).
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
430. The delegation, headed by the Minister of Justice, Mr Sidiki Kaba, recalled the importance conferred by the Senegalese Government to the UPR and its commitment to the promotion and protection of human rights.
431. Upon its independence, Senegal had resolved to consolidate the rule of law, establish a democracy and promote and protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of the person. It was, thus, committed to a multiparty system; the organization of regular, free and fair elections; the fight against impunity and corruption; the protection of children; the protection, promotion and respect of women's rights; the fight against torture and arbitrary detentions; the abolition of the death penalty and the fight against all forms of discrimination.
432. During its second UPR review, Senegal received 185 recommendations. During the Working Group it accepted 152 and rejected 14. The Government requested to defer its decision on the remaining 19 recommendations.
433. Senegal had submitted an addendum 1 to the Working Group Report (A/HRC/25/4/Add.1) to explain its position on the outstanding 19 recommendations. The delegation provided some additional clarifications regarding five of those recommendations. Regarding recommendations 125.1, put forward by Niger, and 125.9, put forward by Switzerland, Senegal accepted them by principle.
434. To stay true to its reputation as a defender of human rights, inherent with its rule of law and democratic experience, the Government committed to continue the process of ratification of the few international conventions to which it is not a party yet.
435. With regard to recommendation 125.9, the delegation recalled that the draft Penal and Criminal Procedure Codes take into account the need to harmonize the Senegalese legislation with human rights international law.
436. Moreover, with the forthcoming revision of these two codes, the Senegalese authorities have the intention of decriminalizing press offenses, aware of the role of regulator played by the media in a democracy.
437. In view of the above mentioned elements, which indicate the progress achieved on this subject by Senegal, recommendations 125.16, put forward by DRC, 125.17 put forward by France and 125.18 put forward by Greece, can be considered without object and, thus, were rejected.
438. In conclusion, the delegation stated that, placing the struggle for human rights at the forefront of its priorities, the State was fully aware of its responsibility to carefully monitor the effectiveness of their enjoyment. Senegal had chosen a political model that gave primacy to human rights.
2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
439. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Senegal, 13 delegations made statements. The statements of the delegations that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[25] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.
440. Niger highlighted Senegal's efforts to protect and promote human rights through the ratification or accession of this country to most of the international and regional human rights’ instruments and the implementation of an institutional framework to guarantee them. Niger recognized the adoption of the 2010-11 law establishing absolute equality between men and women in elective and semi-elective bodies of decision. Niger considered that the adoption of an implementation plan for the recommendations received during the UPR would project Senegal to an even higher level in terms of respect for human rights.
441. The Republic of Moldova acknowledged the commitment of Senegal to all the phases of the UPR. It noted diverse measures taken by the Government to ensure the promotion and protection of human rights, especially for children and women. It welcomed the fact that Senegal had accepted most of the recommendations it received and that some of them were already in the process of implementation. This approach demonstrated the open and constructive spirit of the Government.
442. Rwanda congratulated Senegal for having accepted the vast majority of the recommendations made during the review, including those put forward by its delegation. Rwanda was encouraged by the Government’s cooperation with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and by the measures undertaken for the promotion and protection of human rights in the country.
443. Sri Lanka acknowledged Senegal’s constructive engagement during the second cycle of the UPR. Senegal had accepted the majority of recommendations made during the Review, including those made by Sri Lanka. It was encouraged by Senegal’s commitment to human development and its continuing efforts to achieve the Millenium Development Goals. The role of the National Strategy for Economic and Social Development 2013-2017, which focused on accelerated, more sustainable and better distributed growth was pertinent in this respect. Sri Lanka also welcomed the country’s commitment to promote the empowerment of women and the measures it had taken to this end.
444. Sudan welcomed the delegation and thanked it for its presentation which spoke of Senegal’s cooperation with the UPR process. Sudan commended the efforts made by Senegal to promote and consolidate human rights. It emphasized, in particular, the measures adopted to strengthen the role of schools and the initiative intended to allow 75% of the population to benefit from health services and sanitation until 2017, measures which would enhance the life and dignity of the Senegalese population. It praised Senegal for accepting most of the recommendations including those made by Sudan.
445. Togo noted that Senegal had accepted almost all the recommendations it received during the review, including those put forward by the Togolese delegation. Togo acknowledged the progress achieved by Senegal in the promotion of democracy and the well-fare of its population. Togo invited the international community to support the implementation of the recommendations accepted by Senegal.
446. Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) recognized the efforts undertaken by the Government to comply with its human rights commitments, as was reflected during the review. It highlighted the establishment of compulsory education in the country and the significant increase in the number of schools, teachers and the enrollment rate in primary education. It noted the impulse given by the Government to implement the economic, social and cultural rights in favour of the most vulnerable sectors of the population. Venezuela encouraged Senegal to further strengthen its social policies in order to improve the living conditions of its people.
447. Viet Nam welcomed the commitment of Senegal with the UPR and its efforts in the promotion and protection of human rights. It praised that the Government conferred a central place in its policies to the enjoyment of rights and freedoms of its people, despite many socio-economic challenges. It noted with interest the significant progress that Senegal had achieved in a variety of fields including girls' education, access to drinking water and sanitation coverage. It commended Senegal for accepting an important number of recommendations during the UPR, including two recommendations made by the Vietnamese delegation.
448. Algeria recognized the efforts of Senegal at the legal and institutional levels to promote and protect human rights, such as the establishment of a national observatory for parity, the creation of a national working group against human trafficking and the amendments to the code of nationality. Also, it praised the Government’s efforts to promote the enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights through plans and programs for achieving the Millennium Development Goals. Algeria recognized that Senegal had accepted the two recommendations it put forward.
449. Angola welcomed the commitment of the Government in matters of promotion and protection of human rights, including its accession to several international conventions as well as its cooperation with the mechanisms of the Council of Human Rights. Angola welcomed the constructive spirit of Senegal in accepting the recommendations from its UPR. For this, it encouraged the Government to take the necessary measures for the implementation of these recommendations. Angola recognized that the promotion and protection of human rights represented a great challenge for all States and supported the actions taken by Senegal on this regard.
450. Benin welcomed the qualitative progress outlined in the second UPR report of Senegal. It encouraged Senegal to continue its efforts and achievements in the area of human rights, especially in the field of education, health, empowerment of women, the fight against child trafficking, and the family assistance for the most vulnerable sectors. Benin urged Senegal to intensify its efforts to implement the recommendations of the UPR.

451. Botswana recalled that it served in the troika during the review of Senegal and was encouraged by the country’s level of cooperation with the UPR, including its commitment to the implementation of accepted recommendations. It commended Senegal for the legislative reforms undertaken since its first review. The amendment of the Nationality Code that ended discrimination of men and women in terms of transmitting Senegalese nationality was one of the welcome developments in the promotion and protection of civil and political rights. Senegal also deserved recognition for other legislative measures, including the implementation of the new multi-sectorial policies aimed at combating violence against women and girls.
452. Burkina Faso commended Senegal for the quality of its national report which highlighted good practices in the promotion and protection of human rights. It welcomed the efforts of Senegal to ensure the enjoyment of human rights on its territory, particularly in the areas of education, health, the protection of persons deprived of their liberty, the rights of women, and the fight against child trafficking. It acknowledged the Government’s initiative to provide universal health coverage for the Senegalese population and the efforts made towards the decriminalization of press offenses, improving conditions of detention, and the fight against impunity.
3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
453. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Senegal, 5 other stakeholders made statements.

454. Save the Children welcomed the launch of the Universal Health Coverage to provide free health care for children between 0 and 5 years, though accompanying measures were needed. It acknowledged the establishment of a drafting committee for a new Code of the Children and demanded the raising of the age of marriage from 16 to 18 years. It urged the Government to mobilize additional resources for the social sectors and the implementation of the national strategy for child protection as well as to enhance transparency in the planning process and resource expenditure for the protection of children. It requested the Government to review the law on begging, provide proper care of child victims of exploitation and eliminate corporal punishment of children, especially talibes’ children.
455. Action Canada for Population and Development welcomed the Government’s willingness to engage in the UPR and the acceptance of recommendations regarding trafficking of children. However, Senegal ranked 28th among countries with high rates of maternal mortality. It was, therefore, important that the Government take concrete actions to contribute to the realization of women’s right to health, specifically reproductive rights. Also, it remained concerned with the Government’s refusal to respect the rights of individuals with diverse sexual orientations, gender identities and expressions. It was disturbed by the rejection of recommendation 126.11 to take steps to combat the persecution of persons on the basis of their sexual orientation or gender identity by removing Article 319.3 from the Penal Code so as to decriminalize consensual sexual conduct between persons of the same sex.
456. Amnesty International welcomed Senegal’s acceptance of recommendations to make resources available to bodies working on trafficking, gender and human rights and to ensure the independence of the National Observatory of Places of Deprivation of Liberty. It raised concerns about excessive use of force by security forces to repress freedom of expression and assembly and welcomed Senegal’s acceptance of recommendations to protect these rights. It was disappointed at the Government’s decision to reject recommendations to ratify the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. It was also concerned by the fate of dozens of disappeared Casamance people at the hands of Government forces. It noted the rejection of recommendations to amend legislation permitting discrimination against minorities and ensure the respect for the human rights of LGBTI persons.
457. Rencontre africaine pour la défense des droits de l’homme (RADDHO) drew attention to some of the challenges to be addressed by the Government such as the need for an assessment of the recommendations received during the first review and organize a participatory mechanism to follow-up the recommendations received during the second review; to be more firm in the enforcement of the laws concerning the prohibition of begging, the exploitation and trafficking of children, and the protection of their image through the media; to prevent the dissemination through the media of any message conveying sexist stereotypes that are unfavourable to women; to end overcrowding in prisons; and to take strong measures to stop police brutality.
458. Action internationale pour la paix et le développement dans la région des Grands Lacs (AIPD-GL) and the Comité international pour le respect et l’application de la Charte Africaine des droits de l’homme et des peuples (CIRAC) welcomed Senegal 's commitment to democracy in particular illustrated by a remarkable political alternation. They invited Senegal to consolidate its efforts in the health sector, including by strengthening the Universal Health Coverage programme. The establishment of the Senegalese Committee for Human Rights and of the National Observatory of Prisons were significant accomplishments that should be supported. They noted the efforts to consolidate peace in Casamance. In this respect, it was urgent to support the economic development plan initiated by the Government and to combat inequality in the region. They encouraged Senegal to continue the implementation of relevant recommendations including the decriminalization of press offenses and the promotion of equality in the transmission of the Senegalese nationality.
4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
459. The President stated that based on the information provided out of 185 recommendations received, 154 enjoy the support of Senegal and the rest are noted.
460. Senegal thanked the delegations that took the floor to acknowledge the efforts made by the State for the implementation of the recommendations received during the UPR.
461. The delegation also thanked the non-governmental organizations that took the floor and proceeded to answer some of the concerns expressed by them.
462. Regarding the situation in prisons and long periods of detention, the delegation acknowledged that prisons were overcrowded. The State was implementing a policy to reduce overcrowding composed of three elements. The first was a greater use of probation, as evidenced by the recent release of 800 people under this mechanism. The second element was the reform in progress of the Penal Code and Code of Criminal Procedure and the third was the construction, in 2014, of a prison with capacity for over 1,500 people.
Nigeria

463. The review of Nigeria was held on 22 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Nigeria in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/NGA/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/NGA/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/NGA/3).
464. At its 39th meeting, on 20 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Nigeria (see section C below).
465. The outcome of the review of Nigeria comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/6), the views of Nigeria concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group.
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
466. The delegation recalled that during the review in October 2013, Nigeria received 219 recommendations of which 175 recommendations were immediately accepted, 10 recommendations were rejected, and 34 recommendations were deferred for further consideration.

467. The delegation reported that of the aforementioned 34 recommendations, 9 recommendations - recommendations 137.7, 137.8, 137.28, 137.29, 137.30, 137.31, 137.32, 137.33 and 137.34 - have been accepted, while the remaining 25 recommendations, dealing mostly with abolition of the death penalty, have not been accepted. The delegation stated that the death penalty fell within the joint jurisdiction of the Federal Government and the 36 State Governments. Consequently, it was not feasible to implement a moratorium on the death penalty in light of Nigeria’s Federal System guaranteeing a measure of autonomy to its federating units.

468. The delegation stated that the ECOWAS Court of Justice granted an injunction against the execution of the death penalty, and directed the Federal Government to continue to abide by its commitment to maintain a moratorium on the death penalty. The Federal Government will respect this Court order, as dialogue on the death penalty continued.

469. The delegation noted that the Criminal Procedure Act and Criminal Procedure Code provided that no person can be sentenced to death if he was under the age of 18 years at the time of the offence. The courts have strenuously applied these provisions even where heinous crimes have been committed.

470. Noting that Nigeria did not accept Recommendation 137.6 on the amendment of Article 12 of the Constitution, the delegation stated that the rationale for Article 12 was to ensure that international obligations, as expressed in treaties between Nigeria and other countries, were brought to the attention of the Legislature, in order to promote an inclusive government, and to ensure harmony between municipal laws and international obligations. However, a constitutional review process was taking place in the National Assembly, and the outcome may include amendment of Section 12 along the lines suggested by the recommendation.

471. In relation to recommendation 137.7 which was accepted, the delegation stated that Article 33, Order 237 of the Nigerian Police Act was presently under review, and the National Assembly has taken note of the recommendation.

472. In relation to recommendation 137.8, which enjoyed the support of Nigeria, the delegation stated that those harmful traditional practices were deeply rooted in ancient traditional beliefs and cultural practices, and could not be exorcised overnight. The Federal Government through the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, the National Human Rights Commission and State Ministries of Culture and Tourism will continue to educate the people and raise awareness on this matter.

473. The delegation stated that the Federal Government encouraged educational institutions to adopt a progressive approach to the introduction of sex education in their curricula. Advocacy on sex education will continue on a progressive basis given the cultural sensitivities on the part of parents, religious bodies and other stakeholders in the education of young people.

474. The delegation stated that Nigeria was unable, at this time, to accept Recommendations 137.26 and 137.27 on the issue of early marriage. Marriage fell within the concurrent jurisdiction of the Federal Government and the State Governments. At the Federal level, the National Assembly has passed the Child Rights Act, which prohibits the marriage of any girl-child below the age of 18. To ensure a nation-wide application of this principle, the Federal Government has stepped up advocacy to encourage the various State Governments to enact their own version of the Child Rights law. Twenty-six of the 36 states have, to date, enacted the desired Child Rights laws. In addition, the Government at all levels is engaged in advocacy to discourage girl-child marriages through various measures, including subsidized education for girls.

475. While noting the acceptance of Recommendation 137.31, the delegation emphasized that there were no restrictions in the formation or activities of Trade Unions in Nigeria. Trade Unions will continue to exercise their mandate fully and freely, pursuant to Section 40 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and the Trade Union Act.

476. The delegation noted that Recommendation 137.32 on forced evictions was accepted and stated that evictions have stopped. It also clarified that those evictions carried out in Lagos and Rivers States by the respective State Governments were undertaken for the purpose of urban renewal projects, and to pro-actively save the residents from the hardship and negative effects of potential coastal flooding. In future, when it becomes necessary to evacuate residents of any community for any overriding public purpose, appropriate notices as well as effective compensation and resettlement plans will be put in place.

477. Noting that recommendation 137.34 enjoys the support of Nigeria, the delegation stated that the proposed Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) before the National Assembly was designed to address those concerns contained in the recommendation.

478. With regard to recommendation 137.9 which Nigeria rejected, the delegation stated that in light of the investigation within the Joint Task Force (JTF), there was no incident of massacre or any organized abuse of the human rights of the people by the JTF in Baga.

479. The delegations stated that the Nigerian Security Agencies fighting Boko Haram were under strict directives to operate within the dictates of global best practices and rules of engagement that adhere to applicable humanitarian and international human rights laws.

2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
480. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Nigeria, 15 delegations made statements. If available, statements of those delegations which could not be delivered due to time constraints[26] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council.
481. Senegal welcomed the determination shown by Nigeria to cooperation with the UPR mechanism and commended the country’s ongoing commitment to strengthen, promote and protect human rights. It encouraged Nigeria to continue positive measures to improve the situation and consolidate the achievements made in the area of human rights, particularly through implementation of the accepted recommendations.
482. South Sudan commended Nigeria for accepting the majority of the recommendations and was pleased that Nigeria accepted its recommendation. It acknowledged with appreciation efforts made to strengthen the promotion and protection of human rights, and noted the challenges facing Nigeria in countering terrorist activities.
483. Sri Lanka noted that the majority of the recommendations made during the review enjoy the support of Nigeria, including the two recommendations made by Sri Lanka. It noted the progress made in relation to human rights, and also that the development of the child was at the centre of Nigeria’s development priorities. Sri Lanka welcomed measures taken to address the security challenges.
484. Sudan expressed appreciation for Nigeria’s openness to the UPR mechanism and for its consideration of all the recommendations and its acceptance of a high number of recommendations. Many of the recommendations were highly sensitive for the Nigeria society and that consideration should be given to cultural, social and traditional specificities of each state. Sudan expressed the hope that Nigeria will be able to implement all accepted recommendations.
485. Togo commended Nigeria for accepting the majority of the recommendations from the Working Group including the recommendations made by Togo. It welcomed inter alia the setting up the national human rights commission with financial and decision-making independence, as well as the succession to various international human rights instruments. Togo encouraged Nigeria to continue its efforts towards abolition of the death penalty.
486. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland welcomed the acceptance of its recommendations. It strongly condemned the increasing levels of terrorist violence which reinforced the recommendations it had made. The United Kingdom encouraged Nigeria to ensure respect for the rights on all minorities. It welcomed the commitment from the Government to hold free and fair elections and noted the commitment to protect the independence of the Elections Commission.
487. United States of America encouraged Nigeria to make every effort to ensure credible transparent and peaceful elections. It noted the acceptance of the recommendation to hold the security forces accountable for human rights violations. It urged Nigeria to implement a human rights-based approach and to hold accountable all parties responsible for gross violations or large scale abuses of human rights, as the Government work to counter Boko Haram and others who commit acts of terrorism. It urged Nigeria to repeal the Same Sex Marriage Act.
488. Uzbekistan welcomed Nigeria’s constructive participation in the UPR mechanism and noted with satisfaction that the country accepted a majority of the recommendations made, including the recommendations made by Uzbekistan. Measures taken in implementation of the recommendations will continue to strengthen the system for protecting human rights.
489. Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) highlighted efforts by Nigeria to improve access to housing with the implementation of new mortgage financing standards, which have paved the way for an increase in the number of homes constructed. Venezuela urged Nigeria to continue to broadening its social programmes and policies with a view to reaching those segments of the population most in need, with the support and partnership of the international community.
490. Algeria welcomed Nigeria’s determination to strengthen the democratic process and to promote a culture which respected human rights. It noted efforts that were being made to reform policies and programmes aimed to promote and protect human rights, and mentioned the review of the Constitution and the strengthening of the autonomy of the Electoral Commission. Algeria welcomed Nigeria’s acceptance of its recommendations. It called on the international community to provide the technical assistance requested to implement human rights commitments.
491. Angola commended the efforts taken by Nigeria to protect the rights of women and other vulnerable groups, particularly persons with disabilities. It thanked Nigeria for accepting the recommendation made by Angola which covered this area.
492. Benin noted with satisfaction the qualitative progress contained in Nigeria’s second national report. It encouraged Nigeria to continue efforts and achievements made including in the areas of education, health, empowerment of women and combating terrorism. Benin urged Nigeria to step up its efforts to implement the recommendations. It invited the international community to support Nigeria in combating terrorism.
493. Botswana welcomed Nigeria’s acceptance of many of the recommendations made during the review and was convinced that Nigeria will ensure full implementation of these recommendations. It stated that Nigeria’s acceptance of many recommendations relating to the health sector demonstrated the commitment in the fight against HIV/AIDS, and other health issues in general.
494. Burkina Faso expressed its satisfaction with the report presented by Nigeria and congratulated Nigeria for preparing its report in an inclusive and participatory manner. It took note of the progress made in areas which included access to housing, combating terrorism, combating human trafficking, and torture. It welcomed the efforts made to bring its national human rights commission in line with the Paris Principles.
495. Chad welcomed Nigeria and thanked the delegation for expressing the position of Nigeria on the recommendations. It thanked Nigeria for accepting a recommendation made by Chad.
3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
496. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Nigeria, 9 other stakeholders made statements.

497. The Centre for Reproductive Rights noted that over one quarter of women and adolescents between the ages of 15 and 49 years have an unmet need for effective contraception. Unsafe abortion and lack of access to post-abortion care has led to a significant number of deaths. It called for inter alia sexuality education in schools, an increase in family planning services, access to safe abortions and post abortion care, and a review of the restrictive abortion law.
498. Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom (WILPF) welcomed Nigeria’s acceptance of the recommendations to pass the Violence against Persons Prohibition Bill and urged prompt passage of this Bill. It also welcomed Nigeria’s acceptance of the recommendation to implement the National Action Plan on Security Council Resolution 1325. It noted that the Arms Trade Treaty recognised the link between gender-based violence and the arms trade, and called on Nigeria to establish a national commission to oversee the application of the Treaty.
499. International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU) stated that anti-homosexuality legislation in Nigeria was unacceptable and could not be justified by national and cultural values. Popular support for the anti-homosexual legislation was irrelevant as it was a State’s role as a guarantor of human rights to protect equality without distinction of any kind. It was deplorable that Nigeria not only failed to address rampant homophobia, but also enshrined it in domestic law. IHEU called for the acceptance of recommendation 138.1 to 138.10.
500. Amnesty International (AI) stated that there has been a sharp increase in the attacks by gunmen suspected of being members of Boko Haram. The Government has also committed violations in response to Boko Haram. AI welcomed Nigeria’s acceptance to provide accountability for these violations. It also welcomed the acceptance of the recommendation to prevent forced evictions and urged the Government to put in place legal protections and other safeguards. AI called on Nigeria to repeal the Same Sex Marriage (Prohibition) Act; and to establish a moratorium on executions, with a view to abolishing the death penalty.
501. Jubilee Campaign (JC) stated that the Constitutional provisions on freedom of religion were not always enjoyed by religious minorities, particular since the adoption of the Sharia penal code by 12 northern states. Non-Muslims in these states are generally denied the rights, opportunities and protections Muslims enjoy. The situation has been exacerbated by the emergence of Boko Haram. While prioritisation of counter insurgency was essential, Nigeria must also address the systematic discrimination that contributed to a climate facilitating impunity with regard to religion related violence, and the general undermining of the rule of law in these areas.
502. The World Evangelical Alliance (WEA) stated that Nigeria has not fulfilled its commitments made its review in 2009 to pursue its fight against corruption. Following the second review, there were increasing doubts with regard to the Government’s stand against corruption, particularly in light of allegations missing oil revenues in the sum of $ 20 bn between January 2012 and July 2013. WEA stated that there was no security for ordinary citizens and human rights were being violated.
503. International lesbian and Gay Association (ILGA) expressed concern by the Same Sex Marriage (Prohibition) Act. Innocent Nigerians have been targeted based on perception of their sexual orientation and gender identity, resulting in mass arrest and mob violence, with perpetrators enjoying impunity. ILGA informed of specific emblematic cases. The Act is being used for the purposes of a witch hunt. ILGA expressed disappointed that no a single recommendation on homosexuality was accepted by Nigeria.
504. Rencontre Africaine pour la defense des droit de l’homme welcomed the reforms undertaken in the area of social, economic and cultural rights since. It urged Nigeria to implement the recommendations on corruption, religious fundamentalism, violence against women, and discrimination against minorities. It encouraged the promotion of inter-cultural and religious dialogue so as to combat religious violence.
505. Association for Progressive Communication (APC) welcomed Nigeria’s acceptance of recommendations relating to CEDAW, violence against women and children, education, and to human rights defenders, journalists and other civil society actors. It noted that Nigeria accepted similar recommendations during its review in 2009, but no significant progress has been made. APC recommended a discontinuation of on-line interference and of efforts to conduct internet surveillance. It expressed concern by the rejection of a number of important recommendations.
4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
506. The President stated that based on the information provided, of the 219 recommendations received, 184 enjoyed the support of Nigeria and the remaining recommendations were noted.
507. The delegation expressed its appreciation to all delegations, NGOs and civil society groups for their questions, candid comments and kind suggestions on how to improve Nigeria’s human rights profile. In response thereto, the delegation stated that Nigeria was fully committed to deepening its democracy through free and fair elections; there was no policy of targeting any group and that the Anti-Gay marriage Law was strictly the outcome of a democratic process, which no democratic country can actually ignore; there were no violations of rights of persons in detention, particularly in relation to Boko Haram insurgents; the Constitution guaranteed freedom of religion and the Federal Government, the State Governments and other stakeholders were working closely in various inter-religious platforms to attain religious harmony; every effort was being made through institutional, legal and legislative means to reduce and ultimately eliminate corruption; and finally, Nigeria was one of the freest countries in terms of press freedom, both online and off-line.
508. The delegation reiterated that Nigeria will, as always, continue to play an active role in the work of the Council, with a full commitment to facilitate the promotion and protection of the global ideals of human rights in our country and our sub-region. In this regard, Nigeria acknowledged the importance and usefulness of the UPR mechanism, in particular, the potential it holds for guiding the United Nations and its member States towards realization of the fundamental freedoms for people everywhere. For Nigeria, the UPR process and its outcomes have been a worthwhile experience that will guide policy formulation and execution for the foreseeable future.
Mexico

509. The review of Mexico was held on 23 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Mexico in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MEX/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MEX/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MEX/3).
510. At its 39th meeting, on 20 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Mexico (see section C below).
511. The outcome of the review of Mexico comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/7), the views of Mexico concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group (see also A/HRC/25/7/Add.1).
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
512. The delegation of Mexico stated that an objective and responsible analysis of each of the UPR recommendations was made, within the framework of a working group that included 37 agencies and institutions of the Federal Public Administration, the Legislature and the Judiciary, the National Governors’ Conference and the National Commission for Higher Courts, allowing to identify concrete actions in order to implement them. Mexico expressed the goal of keeping this inter-agency framework to advance on these and other recommendations.
513. The delegation explained that the current dynamics of Mexico on human rights could not be understood without the work, construction and accompaniment of civil society. The Government expressed it assumed, as part of this exercise, the commitment to identify, together with civil society, effective collaboration mechanisms for the follow-up of recommendations.
514. The delegation stated that almost half of the recommendations received by Mexico were referred to the need to consolidate or advance ongoing processes, provide greater resources to mechanisms and institutions that already exist, accelerate the implementation of existing laws, and address pending issues on legislative harmonization.
515. Mexico asserted that the message of the international community was clear: Mexico must consolidate a state policy on human rights, on the basis of important legislative and public policy changes that have been launched in recent years. In particular, the constitutional reform of the justice penal system (2008) and the human rights reform (2011).
516. The delegation informed that on 5 March 2014 a new unique code of Criminal Procedure was adopted, which will provide transparency and agility to criminal trials, thus strengthening the instruments to ensure due process and respect for human rights.
517. The delegation stated that on 4 February 2014, the Senate approved the withdrawal of reservations to five human rights instruments, and the withdrawal of the reservation to the Declaration that permitted the recognition of the contentious jurisdiction of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights. It also mentioned the withdrawal of the reservation to the American Convention on Enforced Disappearance of Persons, in order for the members of the armed forces who have participated in the commission of this crime to be tried by civilian courts. The delegation added that recommendations related to military justice were accepted.
518. The delegation asserted that Mexico has accepted the vast majority of the recommendations, reiterating its firm commitment to comply with them. Mexico stated that, in full compliance with both national and international legal frameworks, it is not possible to implement a small number of recommendations, but a detailed explanation has been provided to explain this position.
519. The delegation stated that Mexico is determined to build a society of rights, convinced that this is an unavoidable duty of any democratic State. It added that it is in an unprecedented time of construction of political agreements, which was crucial to achieve the reforms adopted in 2013 on education, politics, elections, transparency, public finances and telecommunications, which recognize and extend human rights.
520. The delegation asserted that Mexico is committed to strengthening the international human rights system and the UPR as part of its foreign policy, and that the President had recently reiterated its commitment with the UPR recommendations. It highlighted that unlike four years ago, the response to the recommendations for this review reflects an inclusive process of broad consultation and transparency, motivating the publication of the Addendum prior to this session. The delegation declared that for the first time, the process of acceptance of the recommendations provided an opportunity for dialogue which resulted in a document that reflects the policy on human rights and state actions for its compliance.
521. Mexico informed that its second UPR participation coincided with the development of the National Human Rights Programme 2014-2018, to be presented shortly, which responds to the need to link international recommendations to public policy.
522. Mexico also considered that the accepted recommendations will promote the protection of persons in situation of vulnerability who suffer from any kind of discrimination and stated that it will continue to propose initiatives to ensure the protection of human rights of migrants, indigenous peoples, persons with disabilities, as well as the empowerment of women.
523. The delegation stated that the Addendum presented, made public some months ago, reflects Mexico’s commitment with its obligation to ensure that everyone can exercise and enjoy their rights effectively. This report informs about the actions to advance on issues such as military justice, enforced disappearances, protection of human rights defenders and journalists, and eradication of violence against women, among others. The delegation affirmed Mexico has accepted all the recommendations on these issues, as well as those relating to education, sexual and reproductive rights, poverty eradication, public safety, social inclusion, reduction of inequalities, impunity and gender stereotypes. It added that the full acceptance of the recommendations is proof of Mexico’s commitment to meet international human rights obligations.
524. The delegation acknowledged the interest shown by all member countries and their recommendations and emphasized that Mexico commits to take actions to comply with the Addendum: first, Mexico will design a mechanism for monitoring and implementing each of the accepted recommendations; second, an effective coordination with all agencies involved will be made in order to ensure due compliance, and third, Mexico will seek to guarantee participation of civil society in this exercise.
2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
525. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Mexico, 11 delegations made statements.
526. Burkina Faso took note of reforms at the constitutional level which have permitted the strengthening of the Human Rights Commission. It commended Mexico for adopting and implementing the National Development Plan 2013-2018 as framework to combat poverty. It also appreciated Mexico’s progress regarding education and human rights training, and regarding protection of migrants, fight against inequality, and access to housing and food. It expressed conviction that the implementation of accepted recommendations will favour a better enjoyment of human rights.
527. China welcomed Mexico’s commitment to continue to implement accepted recommendations. It thanked the delegation for accepting China’s recommendations and for continuing to give top priority to the elimination of poverty in its National Development Plan so as to build more solid material conditions for the enjoyment of human rights. China thanked for continued efforts to promote legislation and action to remove discrimination and strengthen the protection for the rights and interests of all groups, including women, children and elderly.
528. Cuba congratulated Mexico for progress achieved and encouraged it to continue taking measures in favour of human rights of its population. Cuba recalled significant challenges, as identified in the Working Group report and stated that at that time, Cuba had made several recommendations aimed at making all efforts to reduce to the minimum inequalities in incomes among different social sectors and geographic regions, at continuing efforts to combat corruption at all levels and at enhancing efforts in the fight against drug trafficking. Cuba urged Mexico to continue taking measures that will contribute to the promotion and protection of all human rights.
529. Djibouti affirmed that with the constitutional reform and the Pact for Mexico the Government sent strong messages to its population and the international community about its determination to enhance human rights. It welcomed Mexico’s collaboration with special procedures and regional institutions and the fact that this ambitious program has led to the creation of mechanisms for accountability and follow up. It took note of Mexico’s position regarding the different recommendations made by Djibouti and expressed hope that Mexico integrates persons of African descent in its special consideration for indigenous peoples and other vulnerable groups to combat effectively all forms of discrimination.
530. India highlighted Mexico´s commitment and solid conviction to the UPR and towards the continued progress in their efforts in the promotion and protection of human rights, and thanked it for accepting their recommendation to focus on marginalised groups of society. India took positive note about laudable progress in reducing poverty and inequality, and found encouraging Mexico’s acceptance of many recommendations covering promotion and protection of human rights.
531. Libya highlighted the importance of Mexico’s efforts in promoting and protecting human rights and in actively participating in the works of the Council. It expressed appreciation for the positive developments and progress made, specially the setting-up of a national program to achieve equality of opportunities and combating discrimination against women 2013-2018 as well as the efforts aimed at reforming the electoral law with a view to ensuring full participation of women. Libya thanked Mexico for accepting most of the recommendations.
532. Malaysia was pleased with the explanation and clarification provided by Mexico on a number of issues raised by member states during the interactive dialogue, particularly regarding the rights of persons with disabilities. Malaysia acknowledged its continuous efforts by the Government in the promotion and protection of human rights, including its measures to combat poverty and its serious efforts to promote the right to education. It was pleased to know that Malaysia’s recommendations on these two issues were accepted.
533. Morocco welcomed Mexico’s inclusive and participatory process to define its position on recommendations, and welcomed the involvement of all Departments and Ministries concerned as a good practice. It welcomed the acceptance of most recommendations, particularly those on institutional reforms, and the one made by Morocco inviting it to continue efforts for the effective implementation of the new 2011 constitutional provisions. It expressed that these measures add up to others including the strengthening of the National Human Rights Commission through enabling to investigate grave violations of human rights.
534. Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) was pleased about the disposition showed by Mexico’s government to provide sufficient information, enabling a positive interaction on its human rights achievements and challenges. It highlighted the launching of the “National Crusade Against Hunger” to guarantee food security to more than 7 million persons in extreme poverty, and the incorporation of 52 million persons to the Popular Insurance, who had not acceded to social security institutions. It recognized Mexico’s efforts to overcome obstacles to comply with accepted recommendations during its first review, reaffirming its commitment with human rights.
535. Viet Nam noted with elation Mexico’s seriousness in providing detailed feedback on received recommendations. It appreciated the considerable number of recommendations accepted, including two made by Viet Nam on social inclusion, equality and non-discrimination. It expressed that as achievements are made, expectations rise and therefore much more is needed to be done and that with its firm commitment and strong determination, Mexico will make the utmost efforts to further ensure the full enjoyment of all human rights for the entire people.
536. Algeria welcomed Mexico’s acceptance of two recommendations made by them, on ensuring better protection to children and adolescents against violence linked with organized crime, and strengthening measures to combat human trafficking and violence against migrants. Algeria said it was confident that the measures already undertaken or under consideration by the Mexican Government will have a positive impact on the promotion and protection of human rights.
3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
537. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Mexico, 10 other stakeholders made statements. The statements of the stakeholders that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[27] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.

538. The World Organisation Against torture welcomed Mexico’s commitment to prevent and sanction torture, but stated that since 2009 the practice of torture and other mistreatments continues being systematic. It stated these are committed by the police and members of armed forces, inter –alia to obtain confessions. It said that impunity is almost absolute for torture cases, and expressed concern for the arraigo (preventive detention) and for initiatives to reduce it instead of eliminating it. OMCT stated that enforced disappearance has re-emerged in Mexico and that authorities don’t categorize it as such but as other crimes.
539. Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom highlighted the coexistence of normative advances and creation of institutions with generalized patterns of violence and discrimination against women, especially among Justice Institutions. It denounced threats and aggressions against women human rights defenders and claimed for their effective protection and prevention. It hoped that Mexico installs the inter-institutional mechanism to comply with CEDAW’s recommendations and exhorted Mexico to swiftly set up the agenda for the visit of the Special Rapporteur for Human Rights Defenders.
540. The Comision Mexicana de Defensa y Promocion de los Derechos Humanos, Asociacion Civil, highlighted the significant increase in the use of Armed Forces in public security, despite reiterated calls from human rights mechanisms. It stated that under the intensity and prolonged period of the confrontations, as for the organizational structure and logistics, they could be among a non-international armed conflict in several parts of the country. It showed concern for Mexico’s rejection to the recommendation to eliminate the arraigo, and stated that the Military Jurisdiction continues having cases of human rights violations committed by Armed Forces.
541. The Centro de Derechos Humanos Miguel Agustín Pro Juarez underscored that torture remains a systematic practice in Mexico, remaining almost universally in impunity, and stated that judicial authorities should exclude evidence obtained under a human rights violation. It stressed that while torture is used as a modus operandi, no advances will be achieved in the professionalization of the police and in criminal investigations. It stated that the Council has the function to address situations that require its attention at any moment, not only under UPR, and that in this moment, Mexico required its attention.
542. Save the Children International welcomed the acceptance of recommendations on children’s rights. It urged, inter alia: to engage in a revision and reform process of all legislation to ensure compliance with international standards, to adopt a Comprehensive Child Rights Act by 2016 coordinating government institutions, to take measures to ensure that the rights of migrant children are fully respected, and to guarantee access to a universal health care system prior to, during and after child delivery.
543. Tlachinollan described the reality of the State of Guerrero as one where poverty and generalized violence becomes a systematic violation of rights, aggravated by the lack of civilian controls over Armed Forces. It highlighted the persistence of discriminatory practices and the existence of 40 criminal procedures against indigenous authorities from Guerrero for exercising their right to self-determination. It stated that while Mexico informed about protocols on consultations with indigenous peoples, secondary laws violate daily the right to consultation of indigenous peoples.
544. Action Canada for Population and Development welcomed Mexico’s acceptance to carry out follow-up work on UPR outcomes. It noted strong gender stereotypes and significant obstacles to the realization of women’s and LGBT human rights and sexual and reproductive rights. It appreciated Government’s attempts to create legal provisions to protect from discrimination based on gender, sexual orientation and sexual identity but was deeply concerned that measures taken do not recognize the concept of gender identity. It urged Mexico to adopt federal laws and policies these types of discrimination.
545. Amnesty International stated that the situation in Mexico is critical, with ongoing patterns of enforced disappearances, torture and ill-treatment, arbitrary detention, routine attacks on women, human rights defenders, journalists, and migrant population, calling to strengthen measures to investigate them. It urged Mexico to act on the recommendations made to ensure prompt, full and impartial investigation and prosecution of those responsible for arbitrary detentions, torture and ill-treatment and excessive use of force routinely used by the security forces and the police. It called to reform the Military Justice Code to ensure prosecution in the civilian justice system and regretted Mexico’s decision not to abolish arraigo detention.
546. Jubilee Campaign raised concerns at the continuing and frequent violations of the right to freedom of religion or belief and persistent religious discrimination. It stated that local authorities attempt often to enforce uniformity and dominant forms of worship and belief, at the expense of the rights of religious minorities, and affirmed that Mexico should end the exemption from prosecution that the perpetrators of religious offenses often enjoy. It highlighted that, where possible, the Government must protect church leaders under threat by illegal groups, investigate thoroughly crimes against them, and prioritize the protection of those which speak out against corruption and human rights violations.
547. Grupo de Información en Reproducción Elegida acknowledged the acceptance by Mexico of the recommendations regarding sexual reproductive rights. It stated it had informed the State about the need to reject the recommendation made on the protection of life from conception, as it was contrary to human rights standards, and that despite this, Mexico presented an unclear position, based on reasons that were not discussed in the dialogue process with civil society. It added that a protection of the pre-born life consistent with human rights does not have to impede their exercise, and that they were discouraged by the lack of determination of the Mexican Government to defend reproductive rights of women. It called upon all authorities to effectively comply the recommendations on reproductive health.
4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
548. The Vice President stated that based on the information provided, out of 176 received recommendations, 166 enjoy the support of Mexico, additional clarification was provided on another 2 recommendations, while the rest is noted.
549. Regarding the arraigo the delegation stated its use was reduced in 2013 in more than 50 per cent vis-à-vis 2011 and 2012, and that a reform reduced the number of days in arraigo from 80 to 30 days. It asserted that article 57-2 of the Military Justice Code is going through a reform process to ensure consistency with the Constitution and international standards and highlighted that the Prosecutor General’s Office for Military and military judges have adopted a practice of declining their competence in cases of alleged human rights violations in favour of civilian authorities.
550. The delegation underscored that there is an ongoing work to design protocols that guarantee the consultations to indigenous peoples in cases of development projects that have an impact on them, and that these protocols are being designed on the basis of concrete processes and experiences such as the consultations made to the Yaqui tribe and the El Espinal community (Oaxaca). Mexico noted that there is a program to release imprisoned indigenous persons and in cases where a violation to due process has been identified.
551. The delegation informed that on the Decree against homophobia will be published next 21st of March.
552. The delegation underscored Mexico’s policy of total openness to international scrutiny, and the permanent invitation to any of the special procedures to carry out visits in the country, noting that the Special Rapporteur on Torture will carry out its visit in a few days.
553. Regarding the mechanism for human rights defenders and journalists protection, a mechanism that operates from 2012, the delegation stated that it has already received 152 requests to be incorporated, that benefit today 220 human rights defenders and journalists. The delegation added that this mechanism has recently been applied and that Mexico is working to strengthen it, even with international organizations.
Mauritius

554. The review of Mauritius was held on 23 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Mauritius in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MUS/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MUS/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MUS/3).
555. At its 39th meeting, on 20 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Mauritius (see section C below).
556. The outcome of the review of Mauritius comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/8), the views of Mauritius concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group (see also A/HRC/25/8/Add.1).
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
557. H. E. Mr. I. Dhalladoo, Permanent Representative of Mauritius to the United Nations and other International Organizations presented additional information on the review of Mauritius to the Human Rights Council. It was recalled that the Council's UPR Working Group had examined the Human Rights Report of Mauritius on 23 October 2013 and that, on that occasion, Mauritius had received 150 recommendations. At the adoption of the Draft Report by the Working Group, Mauritius had indicated that it accepted 114 recommendations and that it would submit its views on the remaining 36 before the adoption of the UPR Report at the present session of the Council. After close consultations with all relevant stakeholders, Mauritius had submitted its views to the UPR Secretariat on 03 March 2014.
558. In addition, Mauritius informed the Council that it would submit an Interim Mid-term UPR Report before its next UPR review.
559. Mauritius reaffirmed the Government’s unrelenting commitment to upholding the highest standards of human rights at the national level and to engage effectively in the universal promotion and protection of human rights.

560. It was recalled that Dr. the Hon. Arvin Boolell, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade, who led the Mauritius delegation to the UPR review in October had highlighted that the priority of the Government is to provide its people with a quality of life based on human dignity, equality of treatment, economic empowerment and social justice. It was added that Mauritius continues to build a nation where the welfare of its citizens remains at the very core of development. Mauritius has always endeavoured to foster its development based on the universal values of democracy, good governance, the rule of law, promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. It has adopted an inclusive approach in addressing human rights issues including relevant stakeholders such as the national human rights institutions, non-governmental organisations and the civil society in both mainland Mauritius and in the island of Rodrigues.

561. It was noted that recommendations received during UPR Review related, inter alia, to domestic violence; racial discrimination; review of legislations on child protection; increased protection for the disabled; improvement of human rights situation of working migrants as well as accession and ratification to certain international human rights instruments. Mauritius assured the Council that it valued those recommendations highly and that serious consideration was being given to them while it further pursued its efforts to promote and protect the human rights of its citizens.
562. Mauritius reiterated what had been stated during the Working Group, that the National Human Rights Action Plan 2012-2020 addresses most of the recommendations it had received. It underlined that the Action Plan lays a lot of emphasis on the strengthening of international cooperation in the field of human rights, greater realization of social, economic and cultural rights, the strengthening of women´s rights as well as safeguarding the rights of vulnerable persons including elderly persons, children and persons with disabilities.
563. Mauritius then highlighted action that had been adopted in a number of fields.
564. On the issue of disabilities, it was recalled that Mauritius had adopted measures to implement a policy of inclusive education with a view to addressing the previous lacuna relating to the education of disabled children. The aim of these measures is to achieve parity in the government funding for disabled and other children. It was added that once such parity is achieved, the Government shall withdraw the reservation made on Article 24.2(b) of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
565. Additionally, the Ministry of Social Security, National Solidarity and Reform Institutions of Mauritius is also in the process of reviewing its Policy Paper and Plan of Action on Disability in the context of the Post-2015 Disability inclusive Development Agenda of the United Nations.
566. It was indicated that in the previous month, the Government of Mauritius had set up a steering committee at the level of the Ministry of Information and Communication Technology to monitor the report and promote collaboration amongst the stakeholders on the Online Child Sexual Abuse Reporting Portal so as to reengineer the online child sexual abuse filtering mechanism.
567. As regards protection from domestic violence, it was noted that an Advisory Committee has been established under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive Officer of the Law Reform Commission to reinforce the legal framework for the protection of victims of domestic violence.
568. As regards the ratification of the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol, it was reiterated that Mauritius being a small and densely populated island with limited resources, had not yet adopted a policy or laws to grant refugee status to foreigners. However, cases of demand for refugee status and political asylum were treated on a case by case basis and the assistance of friendly countries and relevant agencies was requested for their re-settlement.
569. With regard to the proposal to accede to the Optional Protocol of the ICCPR, Mauritius recalled that all death sentences imposed have been commuted to sentences of penal servitude for life. However, the Constitution had not yet been amended to prohibit the imposition of death sentences. Amendment of the Constitution cannot be effected unless it is supported by votes not less than three quarters of the members of the National Assembly.
570. As regards the recommendation relating to Mauritian citizens of Chagossian origin who were shamefully evicted by the United Kingdom from the Chagos Archipelago which forms an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Mauritius, the delegation pointed out that the long-standing struggle of Mauritius to effectively exercise its sovereignty over the Chagos Archipelago and the right of the former inhabitants of the Chagos Archipelago, as Mauritian citizens, to be resettled in the Archipelago are indissociable. It was added that the Government of Mauritius will continue to press for the early and unconditional return of the Chagos Archipelago to the effective control of Mauritius, whilst firmly supporting the right of return of Mauritian citizens of Chagossian origin and other Mauritians to the Archipelago. As for the question of reparation to the victims, Mauritius stated that it is of the view that this should be addressed by the United Kingdom which had forcibly removed the former inhabitants of the Chagos Archipelago to Mauritius.
571. It was also reiterated that the Constitution guarantees to all citizens the right to equal protection and benefit of the law without discrimination based on race, caste, colour, sex, religious beliefs, place of origin and political opinions. In addition, a number of legislative measures had been adopted to warrant effective exercise of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, to maintain a conducive environment for equal opportunities for all and to sustain a cohesive and harmonious society in our multi-racial and multi-ethnic island state.
572. Mauritius stated that it fully subscribes to the principles established in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and that it respects the principle of universality of human rights and considers human rights to be indivisible with economic, social and cultural rights as important as civil and political rights. The manner in which all rights are attained and implemented must nevertheless take into account specific national circumstances and its multi-ethnic makeup.
573. In conclusion, the delegation reiterated its gratitude for the support extended during its second review.
2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
574. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Mauritius, 14 delegations made statements. The statements of the delegations that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[28] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.
575. India congratulated Mauritius for the successful completion of its UPR which was a fruitful process of broad consultations conducted by the Government. It commended Mauritius for its laudable progress in the promotion and protection of human rights through the consolidation of its institutional framework and appreciated steps taken to put in place legislation and public policies in the areas of gender equality, ending gender-based violence, youth empowerment and persons with disabilities. India appreciated Mauritius’ acceptance of 114 recommendations during the Working Group, noted the position taken on the remaining recommendations and recommended the adoption of the report.
576. Libya welcomed the positive participation of Mauritius and commended the positive responses to the 114 recommendations that were accepted. It thanked Mauritius for the positive steps adopted to promote the institutions that address the promotion and protection human rights, particularly those related to persons with disabilities. Libya recommended that adoption of the outcome.
577. Mauritania appreciated the constructive cooperation of Mauritius with the Council during the UPR, where it demonstrated its commitment to the promotion and protection of human rights in the economic, social and political fields. It noted the National Human Rights Action Plan, which includes a number of important measures, including increasing international cooperation in the field of human rights. Mauritania hoped that the Council would adopt the report.
578. Morocco stated that the acceptance of the great majority of the recommendations received demonstrated Mauritius’s commitment to human rights and commended particularly its acceptance of its recommendation to continue efforts in the field of human rights education in particular by implementing the relevant provisions of the relevant UN declaration. Morocco considered that Mauritius is an example of democracy and that its independent judiciary plays and important role in ensuring the protection of fundamental freedoms. Additionally, strong and independent national institutions such as the National Human Rights Commission and the Ombudsperson for Children, contribute to the protection of all citizens.

579. Mozambique noted that it was remarkable the Mauritius had not rejected any of the recommendations during the Working Group but had accepted 114 and undertaken to examine the 36 others and provide its responses in due course. This demonstrated the open minded approach of the country to human rights based reports. It indicated that Mauritius’ acceptance of the recommendation to consider extending a standing invitation to the special procedures was a clear indication of its commitment to improve the human rights of its people. It recommended that adoption of the report.

580. Namibia thanked Mauritius for its update on efforts to uphold its human rights obligations. It welcomed Mauritius’ acceptance of the recommendations it had made. Namibia took note of progressive laws, policies and programmes adopted to promote and protect economic, social and cultural rights in particular free education, healthcare and pensions for the elderly and encouraged Mauritius to continue to strengthen such services. Namibia was pleased that the rights of women continue to receive the Government’s full attention through the National Gender Policy Framework across Ministries and encouraged the Government to promote this in the private sector.

581. Rwanda congratulated Mauritius for its positive and constructive cooperation with the UPR mechanism as shown in its acceptance of the great majority of the recommendations received. It thanked Mauritius, in particular, for accepting its recommendation to continue to address gender-based violence. It commended progress achieved in the promotion and protection of human rights.

582. Senegal took note of the additional information provided by the delegation and congratulated Mauritius for its commitment to the promotion and protection of human rights. It encouraged Mauritius to, in the framework of the implementation of recommendations it had accepted during the second cycle, strengthen efforts to eliminate all forms of violence and discrimination against women and children.

583. Togo congratulated Mauritius for its full cooperation with the UPR mechanism and progress achieved in human rights. It invited the international community to support Mauritius in the implementation of accepted recommendations and wished it all success in their efforts.

584. The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland indicated it had been impressed by the generally positive approach that had been adopted by Mauritius to the UPR. It expressed appreciation for Mauritius’ acceptance of its recommendation to improve emphasis and transparency in tackling gender-based violence. It stated that it did not think the UPR was the correct forum for raising issues relating to territorial disputes. It reaffirmed that the British Government maintains that the British Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT) is British and has been since 1814. It further stated that it does not recognize the sovereignty claim by the Mauritian Government. It added that the British Government has expressed regret about the events of the 1960s and the 1970s, and substantial compensation had rightly been paid which had been held to be full and final settlement of the Chagossian claims both by the UK and EU courts. A new study into the feasibility of resettlement of BIOT by Chagossians is underway and expected to report in 2015. It thanked the delegation for its engagement with the UPR and the Human Rights Council.

585. Algeria thanked Mauritius for its constructive engagement with the UPR process. This was clearly manifested in its acceptance the majority of the recommendations received including Algeria’s two recommendations to continue efforts related to human rights education; and to continue efforts in favour of the promotion of the rights of women and children, and in the area of the fight against discrimination awareness-raising. Algeria was confident that Mauritius would spare no efforts in the implementation of its UPR commitments and recommended the adoption of the report by the Council.

586. Angola commended Mauritius’ commitment and efforts in the promotion and protection of human rights, particularly through its close collaboration with the mechanisms of the Council. It appreciated the acceptance of recommendations received during the UPR review, in particular that made by Angola, as well as measures taken for their implementation such as the poverty reduction strategies and the creation of the Ministry of Social Integration and Economic Empowerment, and ensuring access to justice by vulnerable groups. It recommended that the Council adopt the report.

587. Botswana noted with appreciation additional information provided and indicated that as a model of democracy in Africa, Mauritius had continued to respect and promote the rule of law and good governance at the national and international level. It commended Mauritius’ efforts aimed at addressing concerns about domestic violence and its commitment to end gender-based violence by 2015, which include the launch of the National Action Plan to Combat Domestic Violence in 2011 and special awareness programmes for young people. It supported the adoption of the Mauritius UPR outcome.

588. Burkina Faso thanked Mauritius for the information provided and commended efforts for the effective implementation of human rights. It particularly appreciated the launching in 2012 of the National Human Rights Action Plan 2012-2020 and measures for its implementation such as the creation of a monitoring committee. It also appreciated the elaboration of a Database of Human Rights with the support UNDP and the University of Mauritius to evaluate progress achieved in the field of human rights. It recommended the adoption of the report.

3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
589. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Mauritius other stakeholders made statements

590. Canadian HIV/AIDS Legal Network welcomed the steps taken towards non-discrimination, including on the ground of sexual orientation. It noted that Mauritius had indicated that further consultations were required on the issue of decriminalization of consensual same-sex conduct. It also noted that Mauritius had accepted recommendations to legislate positively in this area during the first UPR cycle and considered that this remains an accepted recommendation awaiting implementation. It requested that the delegation indicates its timetable for consultations in accordance with its commitments during the first cycle and its international human rights obligations.

591. European Disability Forum congratulated Mauritius for accepting recommendations on the rights of persons with disabilities made by several delegations. It noted reservations made by Mauritius to the CRPD on articles 9 (accessibility), 24 (education) and 11 (on protection in situations of risks and emergencies) and thanked Togo and Uruguay for echoing the concerns of persons with disabilities regarding these reservations. It also noted the recommendation by Australia to ratify the Optional Protocol to CRPD as well recommendation 129.35 to formulate legislation to prevent abuse and exploitation of children with disabilities. It requested that Mauritius clarify whether it had accepted the pending recommendations and, if not, to consult with the relevant governments that made the recommendations. It recommended that the government address other key issues of the report of Disabled Peoples Organizations (DPO) Mauritius.

4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
592. The President stated that based on the information provided out of 150 recommendations received 114 enjoy the support of Mauritius and the rest are noted.
593. The delegation expressed its sincere thanks and appreciation for the active participation in the consideration of the second Universal Periodic Review Report of Human Rights in Mauritius, and in particular, for the unanimous recommendation for the adoption of its UPR outcomes. It highly valued comments, observations, and recommendations received and taken note of statements made by the NGOs.
594. It was added that some of the questions raised have already been addressed in the Addendum. However, with regard to the UK statement, the delegation underlined that the Government of the Republic of Mauritius reiterates that the Chagos Archipelago, including Diego Garcia, forms an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Mauritius under both Mauritian law and international law, and that it does not recognize the so-called “British Indian Ocean Territory”.
595. The Government of the Republic of Mauritius further reaffirmed that it is the only Government which has the lawful authority to determine issues relating to resettlement in the Chagos Archipelago.
596. It was reiterated that the promotion and protection of Human Rights are very high on the agenda of the Government of Mauritius and active efforts to implement the accepted recommendations would be pursued. Mauritius indicated that it would continue to pursue cooperation with the Human Rights Council and the UPR mechanism as it strongly believed that the ultimate goal of the UPR is to improve the human rights situation of the State under review.
Jordan

597. The review of Jordan was held on 24 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Jordan in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/JOR/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/JOR/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/JOR/3 and Corr.1).
598. At its 40th meeting, on 20 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Jordan (see section C below).
599. The outcome of the review of Jordan comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/9), the views of Jordan concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group.
1.Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
600. The delegation expressed Jordan’s full commitment to work with all partners to ensure the success of the UPR mechanism. It noted that Jordan had already started the implementation of the recommendations. For example, the granting of Jordanian civil rights to the children of Jordanian women married to non-Jordanians had recently been approved. Jordan had also begun studies on the introduction of electronic systems to provide daily information on arrested persons and monitor their legal status.
601. Turning to the 13 recommendations which were to be examined and recommendation 119.1 in particular, the delegation highlighted Jordan’s contributions to, and its leading role in, the establishment of the International Criminal Court. Jordan was not opposed to the privileges and immunities, but considered that the requisite security and political stability which was necessary to implement them did not currently exist in the Middle East.
602. In relation to recommendation 119.2, the delegation noted that Jordanian law provides for the criminalization of all acts that constitute violence against women and highlighted the Law on Protection from Domestic Violence.
603. With respect to recommendation 119.3, the Jordanian Constitution considers all citizens to be equal before the law and therefore sex cannot be used to discriminate against citizens. All the rights enshrined in national legislation granted to the males are enjoyed by females and the same applies to duties.
604. Referring to the inheritance rights of women and recommendation 119.4, the delegation noted that Jordanian legislation is derived from shariia law and it includes a comprehensive formula in this field. Women sometimes receive half of an estate and sometimes greater. Any breach of this formula would threaten a woman's right to inheritance. The Personal Status Law, which regulates inheritance issues, was subject to lengthy public discussion and a consensus was achieved confirming the citizens’ acceptance of this law.
605. In relation to divorce, the Personal Status Law gives the husband the right to divorce and also protects women. A woman can divorce whenever she wants, and retains all her rights arising from the marriage contract as in cases when the husband initiated the divorce. Women have the right to petition for a separation in court in cases of sexual or physical disorder. The Personal Status Law allows a woman to be the custodian of a minor whether she has custody or not.
606. Turning to recommendation 119.5, the constitutional amendments of 2011 provided for the explicit criminalization of all acts of torture. There have been many court rulings invalidating confessions made under torture. In addition, the sentences of the State Security Court which applies the Criminal Procedure Code are subject to appeal under this code.
607. When there is evidence that any public security official has engaged in acts of torture or other crimes which constitute human rights’ violations, the evidence is forwarded to the Police Court. This is an independent court which incorporates all standards and guarantees of a fair trial. Its decisions are subject to appeal before the Court of Cassation. Public security personnel do not enjoy any kind of immunity from criminal prosecution.
608. In relation to recommendation 119.6, a manual for prosecutors for the investigation of cases of torture has been issued and workshops on its application have been held for judges and all prosecutors. Public security officials also participated in these workshops. The Civil Code has provisions regulating compensation for victims of abuse.
609. Turning to recommendation 119.7, the mitigating circumstances for a crime alleged to have been committed for reasons of honour must be proved in accordance with Article 340 of the Penal Code. This imposes an additional burden of proof on the accused. Therefore removing the mitigating circumstances would adversely impact the prosecution of crimes under the pretext of honour.
610. In relation to recommendation 119.8, many of the amendments to the Penal Code increased the level of respect for human rights including, for example, the abolition of the death penalty for a number of crimes, as well as amendments to Article 208 to increase the sanctions for punishing the perpetrators of the torture. Accordingly, abolishment of these amendments is unacceptable.
611. With respect to recommendation 119.9, the Government was open to any proposal to amend the Press and Publications Law. The law was promulgated to regulate the work of websites and increase transparency and accountability in the circulation of information. Amendments have been introduced to the Law on the Association of Journalists, broadening participation and taking into account the electronic media and that the level of the possible fines has been decreased. The requirement for prior permission to publish applies to all forms of media: The goal is organizational and it should be noted that there is no prior censorship on what is published. The Government continues dialogue with all concerned to provide a suitable environment and legal framework that ensures the freedom and responsibility of the electronic media.
612. In response to recommendation 119.10, it should be noted that the registration procedures apply to all media, not just websites. All media must abide by the same rules and Jordan attaches great importance to having a modern media system compatible with the potential reform and constitutional amendments, and creating an environment conducive to freedom of the media.
613. With respect to recommendation 119.11 it had been decided to start prepare draft amendments to the Law on Associations.
614. Turning to recommendation 119.12, the Government had worked recently with civil society and this was reflected in the draft amendments to the Law on Associations. There was no intention to impose restrictions on foreign funding. The measures were intended simply to ensure that funds are channelled to the right purpose for which they are allocated.
615. In responding to recommendation 119.13, the delegation noted that the Constitution guarantees the protection of refugees. Jordan has received successive waves of refugees since 1948 and has always protected them and provided for their basic needs despite its scarce resources. In 1997, a memorandum of understanding was signed with UNHCR which included respect for the principle of non-refoulement, refugees’ rights in education, religion, access to justice, employment and exemptions from residency and immigration fees.
2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
616. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Jordan, 12 delegations made statements. The statements of the delegations that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[29] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.
617. Sri Lanka appreciated Jordan’s constructive engagement with the UPR and noted the acceptance of most of the recommendations made to it. It commended the attention being given to the amelioration of living standards and noted that the Government continued to strengthen the institutional framework for human rights and recommended adoption of the outcome for Jordan.
618. The State of Palestine thanked Jordan for its clarifications in relation to the report. It commended it for strengthening its infrastructure and increasing respect for human rights as well as its cooperation with the UPR mechanism whereby it considered all the recommendations after discussion with the stakeholders. It welcomed the acceptance of the majority of the recommendations including its own recommendation relating to the rights of domestic workers.
619. Sudan expressed its appreciation for the full responses provided by the delegation, Jordan had proven its will to protect and promote of human rights. It noted the implementation of recommendations accepted during the first UPR. It also appreciated the acceptance of the recommendation which it had made. It believed that the HRC should provide any support and solidarity required by Jordan in the field of human rights.
620. UNICEF welcomed initiatives such as the endorsement of the Juvenile Law and looked forward to the review of other legislation relating to children. It commended Jordan’s commitment to reporting to the Committee on the Rights of the Child and called for the ratification for the Optional Protocol on a Communications Procedure. It noted steps towards ending corporal punishment in schools and violence against children. UNICEF commended Jordan’s generosity to refugees and encouraged other efforts to protect refugees, including reviewing its decisions relating to their livelihoods. It also reiterated its readiness to provide technical support relating to foster care and social protection.
621. The United Arab Emirates commended Jordan’s cooperation and acceptance of the recommendations. It noted significant measures towards the dissemination of human rights, including those aimed at preserving the dignity of citizens, equality, social justice and the rule of law. It saluted the efforts to consolidate human rights in the long-term and hoped that the HRC would take noted of Jordan’s substantial progress.
622. Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) considered that Jordan had irrefutably demonstrated its commitment to the promotion and protection of human rights and openly cooperated with the UPR mechanism. It appreciated the country’s efforts to implement UPR recommendations. It also encouraged the Government to continue deepening its efforts in the implementation of the National Strategy for Persons with Disabilities and to boost its social programmes. It recommended adoption of the report.
623. Yemen congratulated Jordan for its many successes in the field of human rights and appreciated the efforts to consolidate the situation of human rights. It noted the acceptance of many recommendations which testified to its resolve to promote human rights. It paid tribute to Jordan for its progress and called for the adoption of the report.
624. Algeria thanked Jordan for the clarifications provided on the recommendations which it had taken back for consideration. It congratulated Jordan for its efforts to increase the enjoyment human rights despite the problems and challenges. It paid tribute to Jordan for its acceptance of recommendations including the two which it had made. It hoped that the report would be adopted.
625. Bahrain underlined the importance which Jordan had attached to the UPR mechanism and the transparency which it had demonstrated during the exercise. Jordan’s efforts to implement the UPR recommendations, especially the constitutional and legislative amendments reflected Jordan’s efforts to improve the protection of human rights, particularly for the protection of women and children and persons with disabilities. It thanked Jordan for the acceptance of the recommendations which it had made and encouraged the continuation of the implementation of the recommendations.
626. Chad thanked Jordan for its presentation and the views it presented on the recommendations presented to it. It noted that Jordan had not accepted the recommendation which it had made on the ratification of the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. It called for the adoption of the report and wished Jordan success in implementing the accepted recommendations.
627. China commended Jordan’s constructive efforts during its participation in the UPR mechanism. It thanked Jordan for its comprehensive and positive response during the UPR and its decision to accept most of the recommendations, including those of China, and continue to improve social protection, health services and employment. Jordan efforts, such as those to protect the rights of women and children, specialized national strategies to promote human rights and reform and its hosting of a large number of refugees should be recognized.
628. Egypt appreciated the positive approach of Jordan to the human rights mechanisms, especially the UPR, which was reflected in the acceptance of most of the recommendations made to it. It noted Jordan’s progress in the legislative framework and policies to protect and promote human rights while taking into account the challenges faced by Jordan, especially the waves of refugees. It also appreciated Jordan’s efforts to improve the rights of women and children. It noted that Jordan was close to achieving Millennium Development Goal 1. It urged the continuation of the open dialogue with civil society, especially in the follow-up to the recommendations.
3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
629. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Jordan 5 other stakeholders made statements.

630. The National Centre for Human Rights noted that there were still gaps and shortcomings in legislation, practice and policy. Referring to legislation it noted that the rights of detainees are not guaranteed in the initial phases of detention and there were flaws in the independence of the judiciary. It was also concerned that civilians were not always tried in civilian courts. It considered that the anti-terrorism legislation required amendment in order to ensure fair trials. Legislation relating to elections and political parties, employment, freedom of expression and association also required improvement. With reference to policies and practice, while observing progress, it noted continued allegations of torture, cruel or inhuman treatment related to police custody, although these were limited in number. The situation of poverty and unemployment was deteriorating. Measures were needed to tackle violence against women, end discrimination against women and ensure their proper inclusion in decision-making. It called on the authorities to ensure the independence of the Centre and its compliance with the Paris Principles.
631. Human Rights Watch noted that the Jordanian authorities were undertaking legislative changes to realize reforms announced in 2011, but that the reform agenda had so far fallen short of making the basic changes to ensure respect for the rights to freedom of expression and association, freedom of the press and an end to impunity for torture. Following street protests in 2011-12, dozens of largely peaceful protestors had been charged with vague, politicized charges which limited their rights and regretted that Jordan had rejected a recommendation to amend the Penal Code in relation to such charges. It referred to women’s inability to pass on their citizenship to their children and regretted that Jordan had not accepting recommendations to lift reservations to CEDAW. It mentioned the lack of convictions for torture or ill-treatment and considered that Jordan’s rejection of a recommendation to move prosecutions of these crimes from police and military courts to civilian courts signalled the continuation of impunity for these offences.
632. The Amman Centre for Human Rights Studies considered that the Jordanian legal system lacked the necessary protections recognized in the international conventions. The legislation perpetuated impunity in cases of torture and did not recognize guarantees for detainees, freedom of opinion or the media and political practice. Regular courts refused to rule on appropriate compensation for victims of torture. Restrictions on the flow of information and opinions, including via electronic means, have come under permanent control of the security apparatus. It recommended the abolition of the role of special courts in judging civilians and noted that the role of the State Security Court had increased. The election law is not fully consistent with international standards. Administrative detention has been used to deprive people of the freedom. The Government’s measures have led to exorbitant rises in education and healthcare costs. It noted the moratorium on the death penalty since 2006, but that courts have still passed death sentences.
633. Amnesty International welcomed Jordan’s commitment to amend legislation to end impunity for torture, prevent torture and ensure victims’ rights to justice and compensation, but urged Jordan to reconsider its rejection of the recommendation to ratify the Optional Protocol to CAT. It also welcomed the acceptance of recommendations aimed at limiting the use and duration of administrative detention and ensuring the judicial control of detention. It was concerned that the State Security Court continued to try civilians and welcomed Jordan’s support of recommendations to abolish this court. While expressing concern about the practice of using legislation to criminalize peaceful political dissent it recognized Jordan’s acceptance of many recommendations relating to freedom of expression and assembly and urged that Jordan amend the Penal Code, Press and Publications Law, Law on Societies and the Law on Information System Crimes. It urged Jordan to review rejected recommendations concerning its reservations to CEDAW and the ability of women to pass on their nationality to children and spouses with a view to their eventual implementation. Recognizing Jordan’s enormous efforts to accommodate refugees it hoped that it would commit to guaranteeing the rights of refugees and asylum-seekers to non-refoulement.
634. Verein Sudwind Entwicklungspolitik considered that Jordan had taken a major leap forward with the abolition of the death penalty for crimes related to drugs and explosives and noted that no execution had been carried out since 2006. It encouraged Jordan to abolish the death penalty immediately. It urged the withdrawal of the reservation to article 9 of CEDAW. It referred to the economic, social and psychological impacts of the inability of Jordanian women to pass on their nationality to their spouses and children. It noted that the number of women in decision-making positions was low and was visible in the judiciary and political institutions. It recommended ratification of Optional Protocol to CAT; the withdrawal of all reservations to CEDAW; ratification of the Optional Protocol to the ICCPR and the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and its Protocol. It regretted that Jordan had not responded in due time in relation to the 13 recommendations left to be examined by Jordan thus preventing NGOs from responding themselves.
4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
635. The President stated that based on the information provided out of 173 recommendations received 126 enjoy the support of Jordan and the rest are noted.
636. In closing, the delegation thanked all those who had contributed to Jordan’s UPR.
Malaysia

637. The review of Malaysia was held on 24 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Malaysia in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MYS/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MYS/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MYS/3).
638. At its fortieth meeting, on 20 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Malaysia (see section C below).
639. The outcome of the review of Malaysia comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/10), the views of Malaysia concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group (see also A/HRC/25/10/Add.1 and A/HRC/25/10/Add.1/Corr.1).
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
640. Malaysia stated that in accordance with the provisions of the Council’s IB package, it was able to support 150 recommendations on which it had exercised considerable flexibility on a number of difficult issues. Malaysia underscored that the Government had demonstrated its commitment to continue making progressive and incremental improvements to the human rights situation on the ground, in line with national laws, priorities and aspirations of the people.
641. Regarding the recommendations that do not enjoy Malaysia’s support, Malaysia does not completely reject the possibility of revisiting those recommendations as appropriate. Malaysia emphasized that this had been Malaysia’s approach since its first UPR in 2009, after which Malaysia had taken steps to implement a number of recommendations that were rejected at that time.

642. Malaysia stated that it had taken steps to implement a number of recommendations. In this regard, Malaysia provided an update on developments related to recommendations made on establishing a National Human Rights Action Plan (NHRAP): on 4 December 2013, the Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department in charge of legal affairs convened the inaugural meeting of the National Steering Committee composed of senior Government officials, representatives from academia and civil society, currently represented by the National Human Rights Commission of Malaysia (SUHAKAM). The Steering Committee has established 5 Technical Sub-Committees with responsibility over 5 key areas of the NHRAP: (i) civil and political rights; (ii) economic, social and cultural rights; (iii) rights of vulnerable and marginalised groups; (iv) rights of the Orang Asli and natives of Sabah and Sarawak; and (v) international obligations.
643. Malaysia reaffirmed its commitment to develop the NHRAP in consultation with interested partners and stakeholders. At the same time, Malaysia is exploring ways to engage more effectively with stakeholders as well as ways to disseminate information on the UPR at the grassroots level.
644. Malaysia noted that the Government had initiated for the first time in 2012, a direct cash-transfer programme known as 1Malaysia People’s Assistance or by its acronym in Malay – BR1M (Brim). BR1M payments are provided to the most vulnerable households and individuals in the country. Beginning 22 February 2014, the Government has rolled out the third round of BR1M pay-outs that are expected to benefit roughly 7 million people. BR1M should be seen in the context of the Government’s long term agenda where it is presently considering the establishment of a comprehensive social safety net.
2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
645. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Malaysia, 15 delegations made statements. The statements of the delegations that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[30] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.
646. Senegal praised Malaysia’s renewed engagement for the promotion and protection of human rights, as well as their full enjoyment. In this connection, Senegal remains convinced that the protection and strengthening of the rights of vulnerable people will be adequately addressed in the implementation process of the supported recommendations.
647. Singapore welcomed Malaysia’s positive response towards the recommendations received during the review, including its acceptance of the two recommendations from Singapore. Singapore stated that it would continue cooperation with Malaysia to promote human rights in the region, including through various ASEAN initiatives.
648. Sri Lanka noted that Malaysia was a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural society where diversity had fed and enriched the social fabric of the country. Sri Lanka also noted that Malaysia had successfully harnessed this diversity for development of the country. Further, Sri Lanka noted that “1Malaysia concept” aimed at reflecting values such as moderation, tolerance, understanding and acceptance through tangible and positive people-oriented programmes and initiatives.
649. Sudan appreciated the open approach taken by Malaysia in preparing the UPR and praised the positive and reasonable consideration of the recommendations presented to Malaysia in the first cycle of the review, as well as all efforts exerted by Malaysia towards the promotion and protection of human rights in the country.
650. Thailand appreciated that Malaysia supported most of the recommendations made, including one of Thailand’s recommendations on universal access to affordable health services for the poor, vulnerable and marginalized groups.
651. Uzbekistan welcomed Malaysia’s support to a large number of recommendations, including to those made by Uzbekistan. Uzbekistan noted major legislative reforms undertaken to protect the rights of children, women and invalids. Uzbekistan also noted that Malaysia developed cooperation with UN bodies.
652. Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), welcomed Malaysia’ responses, which highlights its commitment to the observance of human rights. It also welcomed the successfully implemented programmes designed to overcome social inequality under the commendable strategy of the Transformation Programme. It appreciated Malaysia’s remarkable progress on the implementation of the supported recommendations of the first cycle of the review, as well as the will of Malaysia shown during this cycle of the UPR.

653. Viet Nam welcomed Malaysia’s continued endeavours and achievements in strengthening socio-economic development, harmonized society of tolerance, cohesion, freedoms from worry and fear, as well as in enhancing the enjoyment of other human rights and freedoms for its people. Viet Nam commended Malaysia’s commitment and efforts to implement a large number of supported recommendations, including those from Viet Nam on promoting gender equality and women participation in society, as well as sharing good experience and practices in other fields.

654. Yemen welcomed Malaysia’s achievements made, as well as efforts to improve the human rights situation. Yemen welcomed Malaysia’s support to a large number of recommendations, which shows Malaysia’s commitment to the UPR.

655. Algeria welcomed Malaysia’s support to the two recommendations that Algeria made during the review: to continue consultations with a view to ratifying major international human rights treaties; and to continue combating trafficking in persons and to protect the rights of migrants.

656. Botswana stated that the introduction of the Government Transformation Programme aimed at supporting efforts to promote and protect human rights demonstrated Malaysia’s commitment to improving the human rights situation of its people. Botswana commended the legislative reforms aimed at enhancing the enjoyment of civil and political rights, including the repealing of the 1960 Internal Security Act and the promulgation of the 2012 Peaceful Assembly Act.

657. Brunei Darussalam welcomed efforts to improve socio-economic rights of its people through implementation of various Government programmes, particularly initiatives to enhance the well-being of children, the empowerment of women in the labour force, and the education of its young citizens.

658. Cambodia was encouraged by steps taken for the promotion and protection of human rights of its people. Cambodia appreciated that Malaysia supported its two recommendations made during the review.

659. China appreciated Malaysia’s support to its own recommendation to pursue international and regional cooperation, and to step up the fight against human trafficking, as well as in the light of its national conditions, to enhance mutual respect and tolerance among different cultures and religions and maintain its social diversity.

660. Cuba commended tangible results in the implementation of the supported recommendations in the first cycle, which shows that Malaysia is committed and gives priority to the promotion and protection of human rights of its population. Cuba highlighted the progress in education and health, the fight against poverty, as well as efforts to improve the living standards of its population and to promote the rights of women, children, people with disabilities and indigenous peoples. Cuba appreciated that Malaysia supported its recommendations aimed at further positive measures to eradicate poverty and to ensure health services and quality education.
3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
661. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Malaysia, 10 other stakeholders made statements. The statements of the stakeholders that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[31] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.

662. Human Rights Commission of Malaysia (SUHAKAM) suggested that the supported recommendations form the content of Malaysia’s National Human Rights Action Plan currently being developed. SUHAKAM also urged Malaysia to give priority to accession to the remaining core international human rights treaties. To this end, the work of the Government Committees to study the feasibility of accession to the ICCPR, ICESCR, ICERD and CAT should be accelerated. SUHAKAM acknowledged the progress achieved in the field of economic, social and cultural rights, namely in poverty eradication and in the rights to health and education. SUHAKAM welcomed the Government decision to establish a national task force to look into the expeditious implementation of recommendations contained its National Inquiry Report into the Land Rights of Indigenous Peoples. However, SUHAKAM expressed concern about the re-invigoration of detention without trial through amendments to the Prevention of Crime Act as well as the enactment of the 2012 Security Offences (Special Measures) Act reiterating that detention without trial goes against the rights to personal liberty, to fair trial and to be presumed innocent until proven guilty. While underscoring the right of civil society to actively contribute towards good governance, SUHAKAM regretted any punitive action against NGOs for their involvement in human rights issues.
663. Asia Pacific Forum on Women, Law and Development congratulated Malaysia for supporting several recommendations on women’s rights. However, it expressed disappointment that Malaysia did not support all seven recommendations to remove reservations to CEDAW, CRD and CRPD, as well as to criminalize marital rape. With respect to recommendations on children’s rights, it noted that despite Malaysia’s statement that child marriage had never been a trend, more than 1,000 special permissions to marry for Muslim girls below 16 and boys below 18 were given in 2012. It further stated that the Government had directly and indirectly harassed human rights groups which participated in the UPR, including declaring the coalition COMANGO illegal.

664. While welcoming the recommendations that called for the prohibition of corporal punishment, the enactment of anti-torture law, the setting up of independent police oversight mechanism, the abolition of the death penalty, and the ratification of major human rights treaties, World Organisation Against Torture deeply regretted that Malaysia did not support most of these recommendations. It stated that Malaysian police routinely inflicted torture or other forms of ill-treatment during arrest, detention or when responding to protests stating that since 2009 to August 2013, there had been 124 people shot dead by police. It also recalled that the Enforcement Agencies Integrity Commission (EAIC) lacked prosecuting powers, independence and effectiveness. Further, the risk of torture and ill-treatment was exacerbated by Malaysia’s legal framework allowing for incommunicado detention without charge or judicial review such as the Security Offences Act (SOSMA), the Prevention of Crime Act and the Dangerous Drugs Act. It also noted that whipping or canning remained a widespread form of punishment to prisoners, including asylum seekers and migrants. It also stated that there were currently about 900 prisoners on death row, and that there had been at last two attempts of execution in 2014, but the executions were stayed.

665. Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) noted that the Government declared COMANGO illegal after COMANGO made submission to the UPR urging the Government to cease all intimation and acts of reprisal against human rights defenders and to cooperate with the UPR. CHRI stated that the EAIC was not independent, sufficiently resourced or effective in responding to allegations of excessive use of force, abuse of power or custodial deaths. CHRI also regretted that Malaysia did not support all recommendations related to sexual orientation and gender identity noting that “carnal intercourse against the order or nature” is punished with imprisonment and whipping in Malaysia. CHRI urged the Government to issue a moratorium on prosecutions and to take necessary action to protect members of the sexual orientation and gender identity community and all human rights defenders from threats, intimidation and violence.

666. Dignity International noted that Malaysia did not support key recommendations to ensure that laws and policies concerning indigenous peoples are in line with the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous People. While commending Malaysia’s support to recommendation to eliminate poverty and enhance social welfare, Dignity International stated that these issues could not be addressed without also recognizing the rights to self-governance and the land and cultural rights of its indigenous peoples. It deplored Malaysia’s continuing disavowal of well-established international standards such as the principle of non-refoulement and the protection of migrants, as well as the Government’s resistance to law reforms aimed at the full realization of the human rights of non-citizens. It condemned the Government’s acts of reprisal against COMANGO, and attacks by non-state actors with the tacit support by the Government.

667. Asian Forum for Human Rights and Development regretted that Malaysia did not support recommendations to revise its legislative framework to safeguard freedom of religion, and to ensure the exercise of freedom of religion without state interference. It deplored the Malaysian Government’s failure to uphold, defend, protect and promote freedom of religion as demonstrated in the ban on the usage of the word “Allah” by non-Muslims. It stated that the recent conviction and sentencing of two leading opposition Members of Parliament, Karpal Singh under the Sedition Act and Anwar Ibrahim for trumped up sodomy charges which resulted in their disqualification from Parliament raised serious questions about the independence of the judiciary and the impartiality of the administration of justice. It also deplored the use of “national security” as a basis to curtail the freedoms of expression, assembly and association through provisions of repressive laws, including the Societies Act, the Peaceful Assembly Act and the SOSMA, as well as the reintroduction of detention without trial through amendments to the Prevention of Crime Act. It reiterated the call for the immediate repeal or reform of all repressive laws. It also urged the Government to expedite the ratification of all core international human rights treaties.

668. Human Rights Watch noted that the Peaceful Assembly Act added unnecessary restrictions on public assembly. It also noted that the Printing Presses and Publication Act required that all publications be licensed in violation of free expression rights. It also noted that Malaysia continued to prosecute political opponents and activists under the Sedition Act. It also noted that Malaysia continued to deny due process to criminal suspects noting the SOSMA allows police detention for up to 28 days with no judicial review. It further regretted that Malaysia refused to recognize the basic rights of its LGBT population, and had failed to repeal penal code article 377B, which criminalizes consensual adult sexual relations.

669. Action Canada for Population and Development encouraged the Government to remove any legal barriers to access abortion services, ensure access to a range of contraceptive methods and integrate comprehensive sexuality education as part of formal school curriculum. It expressed concern about Malaysia’s refusal to respect, protect and fulfil the rights of individuals with diverse sexual orientations, gender identities and expressions, as well as to criminalize marital rape.

670. Amnesty International noted the lack of Malaysia’s commitment to ratifying key human rights treaties, which signals its continued refusal to align national legislation with international human rights law. It expressed concern about recent attempt to outlaw COMANGO, a coalition of Malaysian NGOs formed to represent civil society’s human rights concerns at the UPR. It noted that Malaysia rejected key recommendations to amend laws that are used to restrict the rights to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly. It stated that human rights violations by the police, including torture and ill-treatment, deaths in custody, fatal shooting and excessive use of force and firearms remained a critical human rights concern. It further noted that such violations were not adequately investigated and the perpetrators were rarely held to account. Moreover, it expressed concern about the use of the death penalty, where executions had been carried out in secret without prior or posthumous announcements.

671. British Humanist Association noted that the Constitution subjected freedom of religion to a number of restrictions in violations of the ICCPR. It also stated that article 11.4 of the Constitution facilitated assaults on freedom of expression and thought backed by various laws such as the Printing Presses and Publication Act. It called for the Malaysian Government to amend the Constitution and to take effective steps, including implementing the Rabat Plan of Action to ensure that freedoms of religion or belief, expression and assembly may be equally enjoyed by all Malaysians.

4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
672. The President stated that based on the information provided out of 232 recommendations received, 150 enjoyed the support of Malaysia and the rest were noted.
673. Malaysia stated that that all comments made and issues raised today would be studied and considered by the Government in the implementation of the accepted UPR recommendations.
674. While acknowledging the remaining challenges in the protection and promotion of human rights in the country, the Government will continue to undertake necessary actions with a view to effecting further improvements in several key areas.
675. Malaysia reiterated that it remained committed to reviewing its position on the 6 core international human rights instruments, to which Malaysia has yet to accede.

676. Malaysia emphasized that in introducing the Security Offences (Special Measures) Act or SOSMA and the recent amendments to the Prevention of Crime Act (PCA) and the Peaceful Assembly Act (PAA), sufficient safeguards for the protection and promotion of human rights had been included in accordance with international law.
678. Regarding the issue of the right to land of the Orang Asli and the natives of Sabah and Sarawak, the Government does not wish to prejudge the outcome of the deliberations of the Task Force, which has been mandated to study the findings and recommendations of the SUHAKAM Inquiry to determine, inter alia, ways and means to implement the various recommendations.
679. Malaysia noted the acknowledgement by the special rapporteur on the right to food of Malaysia’s adopting a wide range of policies and programmes to ensure effective enjoyment of the right to food as part of the right to an adequate standard of living including for the Orang Asli and the natives of Sabah and Sarawak. One such programme is the Murum Settlement Action Plan. All 353 affected indigenous families were resettled at two resettlement sites, chosen by them, with schools and kindergartens and a Murum Penan Literacy Programme and other initiatives, aimed at further realizing their aspirations for a better future for themselves and their children.
680. Malaysia reaffirmed its commitment to continue cooperating with the UN human rights mechanisms, in particular the Special Procedures. In this regard, the Government has decided to extend an invitation to the SR on Trafficking in Persons, and to the SR on the Right to Health.
681. Malaysia welcomed engagement with all stakeholders on human rights issues in general, and on the UPR and its follow-up and implementation in particular. Such engagement should be undertaken in accordance with the law in the interest of full transparency and accountability for all parties.
682. Malaysia stated that the UPR had accorded the opportunity for Malaysia to evaluate progress, achievements and shortcomings in the promotion and protection of human rights. This process also provided impetus to the Government to continue undertaking further improvements to the existing human rights framework.
683. Malaysia reaffirmed that it remained steadfast in its commitment to continue improving the protection and promotion of human rights. Towards that end, it remains open to have constructive cooperation with all interested partners and stakeholders in the follow-up and implementation of Malaysia’s UPR.
Central African Republic

684. The review of Central African Republic was held on 25 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Central African Republic in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/CAF/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/CAF/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/CAF /3).
685. At its 40th meeting, on 20 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Central African Republic (see section C below).
686. The outcome of the review of Central African Republic comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/11), the views of Central African Republic concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group.
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
687. The delegation of the Central African Republic appreciated the support of the international community particularly the activity and mobilization of the Council at the time when CAR was going through one of the most difficult moments in its history.
688. The delegation stated that the Central African Republic had committed itself in earnest to the issue of human rights in its territory by acknowledging that human rights brings peace, calm and dignity to the people. It expressed, both organizationally and legally, that the Central African Republic has established all the necessary structures to promote and protect these rights.
689. Referring to the national report of the Central African Republic to the second cycle of the UPR, the delegation mentioned that the country had adopted the new Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure and ratified the Conventions on indigenous peoples, on violence against women, on gender based violence and on inhuman and degrading treatment. It also added that the Military Justice Code which was more adapted to the current situation and the law establishing the National Human Rights Commission and Fundamental Liberties were to be adopted by the National Transitional Council.
690. It further stated that the Transitional Constitutional Charter reaffirmed the commitment of the Central African Republic to international human rights instruments. Its preamble in particular addressed the sacred and inviolable of nature the human being.
691. The delegation also mentioned that the roadmap of the Transitional Government covered issues such as the protection of vulnerable civilian population against all forms of violence, especially those based on gender; humanitarian assistance in order to ensure a rapid return of displaced people and refugees to their homes; good governance and the rule of law, through proper judicial administration and stepping up the fight against impunity.
692. It further expressed that during the UPR Working Group , the Central African Republic had accepted almost all of the recommendations and the following three were pending; (1) recommendation on the ratification of the optional protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; (2) recommendations containing a standing invitation to mandate holders and special procedures; and (3) recommendation on standing invitations to mandate holders and special procedures which would allow them to travel to Central African Republic to examine the situation on the ground and make recommendations.
693. The delegation of the Central African Republic reassured the members of the Human Rights Council that these three recommendations were as a whole accepted. Out of 178 recommendations, it in fact accepted 177 and rejected only one which was no longer topical.
694. This testified to the government's firm commitment to set human rights at the centre of its priorities. In fact since the outbreak of the crisis, the country hosted several humanitarian missions and missions from the High Commissioner’s office. The most recent ones include that of the Independent Expert who since 6 March 2014 was on a ten day mission, the International Commission of Inquiry from the Security Council headed by its president Mr Bernand Muna since 12 March 2014 and finally that of High Commissioner to the United Nation Human Rights Office, from 18 to 20 March 2014.
695. Referring to the difficult prevailing conditions in the country, the delegation of the Central African Republic sought support from the High Commissioner’s Office, the Human Rights Council and from the international community to help to implement and follow up the various recommendations from UPR.
2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
696. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Central African Republic, 12 delegations made statements. The statements of the delegations that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[32] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.
697. Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) deplored and condemned all violations that occurred in the Central African Republic, in particular those against women and children and encouraged the State to make all efforts necessary for the achievement of peace and the re-establishment of law and order. Venezuela stressed that all parties involved should devote themselves to the search for durable solutions to the crisis and to national reconstruction. The international community should work in close collaboration with the Central African Republic to bring all assistance and cooperation that the country sought. Genuine dialogue and cooperation were the sole channels of advancement towards peace in a situation where so many had suffered so greatly.
698. Morocco congratulated the Central African Republic for its acceptance of almost all the recommendations made during the review despite the political crisis and the difficult security situation. Morocco saw the election of the new head of state on 23 January 2014 as a first step that will reinstate law and order to enable a return to peace and security. However, Morocco reiterated that the international community should support the Central African Republic as it faced challenges related to the weakness of state institutions, inter-religious violence and impunity. Morocco called the Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in the Central African Republic to urgently identify, in collaboration with the Transitional Government, priority issues that require assistance from the international community.
699. Mozambique stated that in spite of the uncertain situation on the ground, the Transitional authority should be praised in particular for its efforts to abolish the death penalty through the amendment of the Penal Code. Mozambique looked for the report of the Independent Expert to be submitted to the Human Rights Council and recommended the adoption of the UPR Working Group report of the Central African Republic.
700. Namibia expressed solidarity with the Central African Republic and its people, and remained gravely concerned about the human rights and humanitarian situation with thousands of internally displaced people and reports of on-going killings. Namibia encouraged the Central African Republic to continue to promote dialogue and bring all parties together in order to find a sustainable and peaceful solution to a situation which required the urgent attention of the international community. Namibia called upon the international community to assist the country in meeting its human rights obligations and to provide sufficient humanitarian aid in order to restore the country to normalcy.
701. Rwanda appreciated that the Government of the Central African Republic fully cooperated with the UPR Working Group and that it accepted almost all the recommendations received including those by Rwanda. Rwanda understood the difficulties the Central African Republic was facing in the implementation of its human rights obligations in this transitional period and stood ready to explore all means of cooperation and exchange of good practices with the Central African Republic. Concerned about the extent of human rights violations, Rwanda was looking forward to an oral update by the Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in the Central African Republic at the 25th session of the Human Rights Council, and to her preliminary report to the Council at its 26th session. Rwanda supported the adoption of the UPR Working Group report of the Central African Republic.
702. Senegal commended the engagement of the Central African Republic for the promotion, protection and full enjoyment of human rights and encouraged it to reinforce protection measures in favour of women and children. Senegal echoed the appeal of the Central African Republic and urged the international community to help the country in the implementation of the recommendations as accepted. Finally, Senegal invited the Council to adopt the UPR Working Group report of the Central African Republic.
703. South Sudan stated that, as a neighbouring country, they knew the challenges that the Central African Republic was facing. South Sudan urged all parties to look for political stability, peace and security in the whole country and encouraged inter-religious dialogue between Muslims and Christians. South Sudan also called on the international community to provide the Central African Republic with technical assistance and capacity building in the field of human rights and recommended that the Council adopt the UPR Working Group report of the Central African Republic.
704. Sudan stated that by taking a series of positive steps to ensure the restoration of peace and security, the Central African Republic expressed a genuine and true intention in enhancing and promoting human rights in the country. However, the immense challenges of the current situation required the support of the international community which should provide the government and the people of the Central African Republic with more assistance. Sudan supported the adoption of the UPR Working Group report of the Central African Republic.
705. The United States of America welcomed the interim CAR government’s decision to accept recommendations to combat impunity for perpetrators of human rights abuses, end the recruitment and use of child soldiers, ensure the free circulation of humanitarian workers, conduct free and fair presidential elections without undue delay. The United States expressed its deep concern about the range of human rights violations and abuses occurring in the Central African Republic that began with the Seleka rebellion in 2012 and mentioned the recommendations made to combat the recruitment and use of child soldiers. It stressed that the government of the Central African Republic should consider as a matter of priority ratifying the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) on the involvement of children in armed conflict. It urged the interim government to ensure greater human rights protections for the children of the Central African Republic, to fulfil its public pledge to prioritize justice and accountability for past violations and abuses and to consider seeking technical assistance from OHCHR and the international community to assist with justice and accountability efforts. The United States of America expressed its satisfaction with the engagement of the government of the Central African Republic in the UPR process and readiness for continued dialogue.
706. Mauritania noted the cooperation of the Central African Republic in applying the international human rights mechanisms including the Universal Periodic Review. It regretted the severe human rights violations in the Central African Republic. It noted that the Universal Periodic Review process was a unique opportunity to assess the human rights situations by different parties in the Central African Republic and clarified the measures it adopted to promote and protect human rights. It encouraged the Central African Republic to continue to improve and to prioritize the promotion and protection of human rights efforts. It recommended adopting the report of the Central African Republic.

707. Angola commended the high quality of the final UPR report presentation, despite the difficulties encountered in the country. It applauded the efforts made by the Central African Republic to maintain ongoing cooperation with UN human rights mechanisms during this difficult period. Angola also supported the government in its undertaking to enact legal reforms for the promotion and protection of women's rights, including the draft Law on parity, the revision of the Family Code and the involvement women in the conflict settlement process. Citing the political, economic and social difficulties that have been encountered, Angola stated that it would join the appeal made to the international community to provide assistance to the country to restore democracy and rule of law as “sine qua none” conditions for the promotion and protection of human rights. Angola recommended the adoption of CAR’s final report.
708. Benin saluted the efforts made by the Central African Republic for its second UPR report. It also encouraged the current authorities to continue their efforts and achievements in respect to human rights, particularly in the area of upholding public order, the peaceful settlement of conflicts and the fight against impunity. Benin further called for technical and financial assistance from the international community to support the Central African Republic for the restoration of a democratic state. Benin recommended the adoption of CAR’s outcome.
3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
709. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Central African Republic, three other stakeholders made statements.

710. Amnesty International expressed concern about the serious human rights violations, including war crimes and crimes against humanity, continued to take place in many parts of the Central African Republic despite the presence of the African Union and French forces. Extra-judicial killings, torture, looting and other atrocities were committed on a daily basis. Ethnic cleansing of the Muslim population had also taken place forcing thousands of Muslims to flee to neighbouring countries. Meanwhile, thousands of people forced to flee the violence in the Central African Republic were now facing another humanitarian crisis in neighbouring Chad. It further stated that despite having a new government in place, a greater humanitarian and civilian protection crisis still loomed if nothing was done to tackle the ongoing serious human rights abuses committed by all sides. Amnesty expressed that it was encouraged by the acceptance of recommendations aimed at restoring peace and stability in the Central African Republic and welcomed the commitment to facilitate and provide humanitarian assistance to all those in need, in particular refugees and internally displaced persons. Furthermore, it welcomed CAR’s acceptance of the recommendations to strengthen the rule of law and the capacity of peace and security forces. It also welcomed the commitment to work actively with the international community to end this humanitarian and human rights crisis. Finally it stressed that peace in the Central African Republic will involve ensuring the current peacekeeping forces had a strong, effective, fully resourced human rights mandate and that they were positioned in areas where civilians were most in need of protection.



711. Jubilee Campaign thanked the Central African Republic for its engagement with the UPR process. It added that since December 2012, the human rights and humanitarian situation had worsened with no sign of stopping. Most alarming had been the advent of sectarian violence. However, it further stated, that from December 2012, local sources increasingly noted the targeting of the Christian population. The targeted violence worsened with Seleka's seizure of power in March 2013 ultimately leading to retributive violence in the form of anti-Balaka militia groups that had been responsible for significant human rights violations including the current and abhorrent violations of the Muslim community. It mentioned that regular reports indicated that the targeting of Christian community was continuous. Jubilee Campaign underlined that the portrayal in international media and elsewhere of a multifaceted conflict had been between Christians and Muslims in a country that included followers of indigenous and other beliefs and in a region where violent and religious based insurgencies existed was unhelpful and dangerous. It risked an escalation by playing into the clashes of civilizations narrative the feeds local Islamists insurgencies. It stated that the Central African Republic, with the help of the international community, must work to ensure that all citizens enjoy the same rights guaranteed under the ICCPR, ICESCR, and ICHPR. It also applauded religious leaders of different creeds who continue their work of reconciliations. It stressed that the government of the Central African Republic needs assistance in restoring the rule of law and civil administration to ensure that all perpetrators of violence and human rights violations were brought to justice regardless of religion, political affiliation or ethnicity.



712. RADDHO welcomed the delegation of the Central African Republic and supported concerns raised of repeated and widespread human rights violations in the country. It expressed its concern about the implementation of the recommendations from the UPR by the transitional authorities regarding the cycle of violence, instabilities and humanitarian crisis in the country. It hoped the recent visit of the High Commissioner of Human Rights will help to improve the human rights situations and stop impunity in the country. It also profoundly appreciated the continuing efforts of the countries belonging to the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa and saluted the organizations of a special session on the situation of Central Africa; and supported the Human Rights Council’s nominations of an Independent Expert. RADDHO condemned the violence, crimes of torture, rape, enrolment of child soldiers, and the systematic pillaging of property of both citizens and foreigners by the Anti-Balaka armed groups and by the Seleka militias. RADDHO exerted the Transitional Authorities to organize promptly a global dialogue that includes all parties in relation to the refugee and internally displaced persons to put an end to violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. It finally asked the politicians and the civil society in the Central African Republic to approach national reconciliations in a clear and responsible manner in order to realistically face this tragic situation and bring about a durable solution.

4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
713. The President stated that based on the information provided out of 178 recommendations received 177 enjoy the support of the Central African Republic and one was noted.


714. The representative of the Central African Republic stated that while UPR was considered to be like a sword of Damocles it was also a barometer measuring States respect of human rights some sort of a universal code of conduct .The delegation recalled the extraordinary current crisis in his country. He appreciated the international community’s support in attempting to find a way out of this abysmal period and appealed for their on-going assistance. He referred to the statements made by the States and the non-governmental organizations calling for an international mobilization to address the two major and interconnected challenges in the country, the security and the humanitarian situations. He reiterated his appeal to the international community not to abandon the country during this alarming situation. In conclusion he thanked the President and its office as well as the Member States for their advice. The Ambassador referenced the upcoming interactive dialogue with the Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in Central African Republic, Marie-Thérèse Keita Bocoum, and its positive impact for the future of Central African Republic.
Belize

715. The review of Belize was held on 28 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Belize in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/BLZ/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/BLZ/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/BLZ/3).
716. At its 41st meeting, on 20 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Belize (see section C below).
717. The outcome of the review of Belize comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/13), the views of Belize concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group (see also A/HRC/25/13/Add.1).
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
718. The delegation of Belize reiterated the commitment of its Government to promoting and protecting the human rights of all Belizeans. The Government viewed human rights as fundamental to the development, democracy and very way of life of Belize. It was for this reason that the Government approached the Universal Periodic Review of Belize in an open and transparent manner, which was indispensable to making the review meaningful.
719. For Belize, the Universal Periodic Review was not just the process that had taken place in that chamber. The Government had taken an inclusive and consultative approach at the national level as well. From the preparation of the report, to its finalization at home; from the outcome of the review in October to the consideration of how to treat with the pending recommendations, Belize had, at every stage, involved and engaged with a wide cross section of stakeholders from the government Ministries and agencies, and most importantly to civil society and its citizens.
720. While the Government was fully committed to its singular role as the duty bearer, the active and informed engagement of Belizeans in the assessment of the Government’s efforts and its role was equally important to ensure that human rights was meaningful and effected in the daily lives of Belizeans.
721. Last October, at the conclusion of the review, Belize received 103 recommendations. All recommendations were very constructive and clearly given with the intention of assisting Belize to strengthen its human rights frameworks and guarantee the enjoyment of all human rights by all Belizeans.
722. At the conclusion of the review on 31 October 2013, Belize had indicated right away that it was able to accept 59 of the recommendations or 57 per cent of the total recommendations received. Of these 59, it regarded 26 as already being implemented. The recommendations supported by Belize related to issues such as racial discrimination, equity and non-discrimination, child labour, juvenile justice, the right to health and to education, the rights of migrants and of persons with disabilities, women’s rights and addressing violence against women, preventing and combating trafficking in persons, expanding the scope of human rights treaty obligations and strengthening institutional infrastructure and policy measures. There were also a number of recommendations that Belize had accepted relating to the right to development and poverty reduction.
723. Belize was of the view that these recommendations would contribute to the strengthening of its human rights framework and deepen government’s rights-based approach to development. Since the review in October, the Government had decided to make further investments in expanding access to education, health care and strengthening of the social protection system by enlarging the scope of the National Health Insurance scheme to include northern Belize, increasing the beneficiaries of the conditional cash transfer and food pantry programmes and expanding education subsidies for high school students. These concrete actions on the part of Government would serve to advance its efforts in guaranteeing the right and access to education, to health and to development.
724. Belize had reserved its position on 44 of the recommendations, indicating that, while it had found sympathy with the spirit in which these 44 recommendations had been made, these had required further consultations at the national level.
725. In the four months since the review, the Government had reflected thoughtfully on all of the recommendations received, and in particular, on the 44 recommendations on which it had reserved its position.
726. The delegation informed that the Government had decided to accept further six recommendations, in whole or in part. Therefore, Belize accepted a total of 65 recommendations and would thus move towards ratification of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance as well as the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness. These intended actions on the part of the Government would clearly demonstrate its commitment to expand the human rights framework at home. The delegation also indicated that Belize had recently launched its internal process for preparation of its Initial Report to the Human Rights Committee in respect of the implementation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
727. The Government decided that it was not able to support 11 of the recommendations in part or in whole, many of these were overlapping. These were clearly indicated in A/HRC/25/13/Add.1.
728. While the Government did not support recommendations relating to extending standing invitations to special procedures mandate holders, Belize was open to considering such invitations on a case by case basis. Indeed, last year, Belize had acceded to the request from the Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children. The Special Rapporteur undertook her visit to Belize last December.
729. In relation to the recommendations relating to the Second Option Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights on the abolition of the death penalty, the Government was not able to support them, considering that the death penalty was enshrined in the Constitution and a valid part of the laws of Belize. Notwithstanding, it should be noted that the death penalty had not been utilized in its jurisdiction for almost 30 years.
730. Similarly, Belize was not able to support the recommendations relating to the minimum age of marriage, which had already been increased to 16 years with parental consent, and with due regard to cultural factors, this would require extensive national consultations before any considerations could be given to raising it further.
731. Belize had decided to “note” 29 of the recommendations. These were clearly indicated in A/HRC/25/13/Add.1. The Government had given thorough and thoughtful consideration to these 29 recommendations relating to about 6 themes. Belize supported the spirit in which several of these recommendations had been made.
732. Belize was of the view that many required further national consultations, and others had financial implications that merited further consideration, such as those recommendations regarding the establishment of new institutions. Others were sub judice, such as those relating to decriminalization of the same sex activity, and a few were of such a nature that complex implementation measures were entailed, such as those requiring Constitutional amendments. Belize would continue to keep these 29 recommendations under review.
733. The continuous involvement of Belizeans in a national level dialogue on human rights was essential to the evolution in national thinking that might lead to expanding the scope of human rights, to implementing the recommendations received during the UPR process, and to fortifying a culture of human rights.
734. Belize remained committed to fulfilling its international human rights treaty obligations and to ensuring that the human rights and fundamental freedoms enshrined in its Constitution are guaranteed to every citizen. The Government would continue to work to strengthen its specialized human rights institutions, including the National Women’s Commission, the National Committee for Families and Children, the National Council on Aging, and the National AIDS Commission, as well as the Office of the Ombudsman and legal aid office.
735. The rights-based approach to development, which was fully evident in the national report, would continue to guide Government’s efforts to ensure that human rights are realized in all its dimensions: legal, social, political and economic.
736. At the national level, the UPR process served as a catalyst for national stocktaking, reflection, dialogue and self-assessment on the effectiveness of national human rights institutions. At the global level, the UPR was a useful tool to engage in an open dialogue to share experiences and receive recommendations in the context of mutual assessment. However, another layer to the process was necessary, one that allowed for firm exchanges of technical assistance and cooperation to support the efforts of developing countries, especially small states like Belize.
737. The frustrating capacity constraints Belize faced as a small state inhibited its best intentions in areas such as timely reporting to treaty bodies. The assistance of the international community and the United Nations agencies was important in this regard in building capacity in treaty implementation and reporting, and in mainstreaming human rights education. Belize considered that this would be an added value to the UPR process.
738. The delegation reiterated the commitment of the Government to the international human rights system and to the promotion and protection of human rights in Belize. Belize enshrined the basic fundamental freedoms in the Constitution, the highest law of the land. The preamble to the Constitution opened by affirming “that the Nation of Belize shall be founded on the principles which acknowledge ... faith in human rights and fundamental freedoms, the position of family in a society of free men and free institutions, the dignity of the human person and the equal and inalienable rights with which all members of the human family are endowed ...”
739. The Government was committed to continuing to make every effort to ensure that human rights are deeply embedded in the social, political and cultural fabric of the society. In addition to the civil and political rights, it had established a foundation for economic, cultural and social rights, as indicated in its national report.
740. The delegation commended the Report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review of Belize, contained in document A/HRC/25/13 and A/HRC/25/13.Add1 to the Council.

2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
741. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Belize, four delegations made statements.
742. UNICEF welcomed Belize’s efforts towards increased protection of children through legislative reforms, such as the move to amend the criminal code to increase penalties for violence against children. UNICEF commended the adoption of the Commercial Sexual Exploitation Bill and the amendments to the Trafficking in Persons Prohibition Act. UNICEF also welcomed the increased attention to the rights of children with disabilities and to increasing birth registration rates. UNICEF noted the implementation of the Conditional Cash Transfer Programmes, an initiative contributing to the well-being of the most vulnerable children. To further strengthen these positive advances, UNICEF called on Belize to support the juvenile justice reform in order to guarantee the rights of children in conflict with the law, in particular raising the age of criminal responsibility in line with internationally accepted standard, and to consider legislating a full ban on corporal punishment. UNICEF encouraged Belize to consider raising the minimum legal age of marriage to bring it in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and to take steps to reduce the incidence of child marriage. UNICEF also encouraged Belize to strengthen its system for birth registration by increasing efforts to implement the 2009 Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry of Health which would ensure that children are registered shortly after birth. UNICEF also urged Belize to submit the overdue report to the Committee on the Rights of the Child and ratify the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on a communications procedure.
743. Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) welcomed the spirit of openness and constructive dialogue that it had with Belize that provided tangible replies to the questions asked during the review. Ratification by Belize of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities spoke the volume about the commitment of Belize to fully integrate this vulnerable group within the population. It appreciated the efforts that Belize had made for the promotion and protection of human rights despite the economic difficulties and drew the attention to the will of Belize to achieve the goals that had been set.
744. Algeria welcomed the commitment of Belize in the framework of the UPR, which was seen in the acceptance by Belize of a significant number of the recommendations that it had received. Algeria welcomed, in particular, the fact that Belize had accepted its recommendation on continuing efforts aimed at implementing the national policy of gender equality, which was adopted by Belize in March 2013. Algeria hoped that Belize would be able to benefit from the assistance and support it needed in implementing the accepted recommendations.
745. Cuba recalled that, during the review of Belize, it had praised the efforts made by Belize to achieve gender equality through the implementation of the Revised National Gender Policy approved in March 2013. It had also drawn attention to the efforts to reduce poverty and unequal income distribution, which was a key priority for Belize. Furthermore, it had noted that the implementation of the education sector strategy 2012 had enabled the country to advance access and quality of teaching, despite the challenges that still remained. It welcomed the fact that Belize had accepted the recommendations it had made with regard to continuing to strengthen measures aimed at ensuring development in a manner that is resistant to risks; to develop projects aimed at reducing poverty; and to implement programmes aimed at guaranteeing quality education to all the population, with an emphasis on access, school enrolment and decreasing school drop outs.
3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
746. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Belize, three other stakeholders made statements.

747. Canadian HIV/AIDS Legal Network congratulated Belize for the sincere efforts in consulting its lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) citizens in 2013 while drafting its national report. However, concerning recommendation 97.7 on equality and non-discrimination, Belize was not acting in conformity with its international commitments. It urged Belize to develop a practical mechanism and seek technical support to expand its capacity to respond to discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. It also noted that Belize’s reluctance to address recommendations 99.28 to 99.39 affecting the LGBT citizens in any substantive way remained a cause for concern. The advances on responses to HIV, gender issues, and economic concerns of citizens had not affected LGBT people in any visible way. No adequate domestic institutional mechanisms existed for reporting and seeking redress from human rights violations; such reports went without investigation or prosecution. No legislative amendment had been made to end the discriminatory laws, such as the immigration act and section 53 of the criminal code. The current statute sanctioned and promoted impunity. It asked whether Belize would follow the example of other States and substantively address the social disparities affecting its LGBT citizens in a timely manner.
748. Minority Rights Group International (MRG) welcomed Belize’s engagement in the UPR process and statement to the UPR Working Group that, in respect of the July 2013 decision of the Court of Appeal affirming the rights of the Maya over their traditional lands, the Government was seeking in conjunction with the representatives of the Maya “to determine a mutually agreeable framework for the implementation of [that] judgment.” It looked forward to Belize engaging with it on this issue and presumed that Belize would withdraw its appeal to the Caribbean Court of Justice challenging the finding of the court that the Maya were indigenous to southern Belize. It welcomed Belize’s support of the recommendation to monitor the extractive activities of oil companies in Mayan territory, however, were extremely concerned that Belize considered that this recommendation was met merely by oil companies having an environmental compliance plan in place. In accepting this recommendation, Belize had recognized that extractive activities could not take place on Maya territory without the free and prior and informed consent of the Maya population. It urged Belize to review the concession granted to the US Capital Energy. Furthermore, it regretted that Belize was not prepared to accept the recommendations regarding adoption of ILO Convention no. 169 and the obtaining the free, prior and informed consent of the Mayan communities and urged Belize to reconsider its position and to engage with representatives of the Mayan communities.
749. Action Canada for Population and Development appreciated the willingness and commitment of Belize to provide information and education on sexually transmitted infections to its population, as well as to combat stigma against people living with HIV/AIDS. However, it was concerned that no activities were carried out to address discrimination on the ground of sexual orientation. Non-heterosexual persons remained one of the most discriminated groups in Belize. Moreover, it was very disappointed at the lack of acceptance of several recommendations regarding violations of human rights based on sexual orientation and gender identity. These included ensuring the prohibition of discrimination on that basis; ensuring that the criminal code does not criminalize individuals based on their sexual orientation or the removal of domestic legislation that outlawed same sex activity between consenting adults, among others. It urged Belize to address this issue by adopting and implementing laws and policies that will eliminate discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity as recommended by several States during the second UPR cycle.
4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
750. The President stated that, based on the information provided, out of 103 recommendations received, 63 enjoy the support of Belize, additional clarification was provided to two recommendations, and the rest are noted.

751. Belize thanked the Human Rights Council for its support and recommendations as well as those delegations that had spoken. Belize noted with great respect their constructive comments. These would certainly be taken into consideration as Belize moved to take action on their recommendations. Belize believed that its national report and responses in the interactive dialogue last October and the addendum that it had submitted addressed many issues and concerns raised. Belize looked forward to continuing the dialogue in interim years until the next review and commended the Report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review of Belize to the Human Right Council.

Chad

752. The review of Chad was held on 29 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Chad in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/TCD/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/TCD/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/TCD/3).
753. At its 41st meeting, on 20 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Chad (see section C below).
754. The outcome of the review of Chad comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/14), the views of Chad concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group (see also A/HRC/25/14/Add.1).
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
755. The Chadian delegation reiterated its willingness to fully cooperate on implementation of the recommendations issued at the 17th UPR Working Group. It pointed out that the current session provided an opportunity to seek active cooperation and support of the United Nations system to strengthen the capacity of Chadian national human rights institutions.
756. After having carefully examined the 174 recommendations received by Chad during the interactive dialogue, the Government accepted 119 and noted 55. The delegation mentioned that the authorities accepted the recommendations encouraging them to take measures to improve the legislative and institutional framework.
757. The delegation stated that the Government noted recommendations which had already been implemented or were in the process of implementation.
758. Regarding the recommendations on the ratification of the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights aimed at the abolition of the death penalty, the delegation said that the Government was willing to ratify a number of international legal instruments on human rights, but it wanted to do so gradually. It is considering ratifying the Optional Protocol to the Convention on Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.

759. The delegation noted that the Government had already carried out the recommendation of the National Forum on Human Rights concerning the development of a national action plan for human rights. This plan has been developed and validated, and its adoption is in progress.
760. As for the revision of the national legislation on gender equality, the delegation replied that Article 13 of the Constitution provides Chadians of both sexes with the same rights and the same duties; they are equal before the law. Gender equality is one of the priorities of the Chadian authorities. They will continue to take measures to promote equality in social life and hope to achieve a balance between men and women in positions of responsibility. The delegation added that the authorities encouraged the participation of women in management of public affairs and favoured female candidates in the public domain.
761. The delegation stated that the Government had already taken measures to combat traditional practices through legislation and awareness campaigns. A broad campaign targeting traditional and religious leaders was undertaken to eradicate these harmful practices.
762. The delegation mentioned that, in order to ensure compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and its Optional Protocols, the Government had established focal points in Ministries working in partnership with UNICEF and UNDP.
763. The delegation stated that the Plan of Action signed by the Government and UNICEF in June 2011 had been implemented and produced the expected results. According to the delegation, there are no longer any child soldiers in the ranks of the army. In the draft Penal Code, the recruitment of child soldiers is a criminal offense and, pending the adoption of this project, a decree was adopted prohibiting and criminalizing the recruitment and use of children in the army.
764. With regard to violence against children, the delegation said that corporal punishment in public institutions was prohibited by law and added that structures dealing specifically with children’s issues did exist in Ministries.
765. On detention issues, the delegation mentioned a decree of October 2011 which allows the detainees to access to their files and to use their right to legal remedy.
766. The delegation stated that contrary to some allegations, no draft revision of the law (Nr 017/PR/2010) on the status of the press had been initiated. It added that this law did not affect the freedom of expression, but rather protect journalists.
767. Regarding human trafficking, the delegation mentioned that Chad had ratified the Palermo Protocol and the Abuja Agreements. Currently, the authorities with the technical support of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and the United States, plan to develop a specific law on trafficking in persons to harmonize its internal legal framework with ratified international instruments.
768. The delegation noted that the programme entitled PRAJUST, which supports judicial reform, came to an end having done a remarkable job and that negotiations were underway for PRAJUST II. It added that the Government would need to build or rehabilitate more than thirty prisons to international standards.
769. The delegation mentioned that a report on the recommendations of the Commission of Enquiry into the events of February 2008 had been issued by the “Comité de suivi”. On the judicial side, a dismissal of proceedings was decided by the investigating magistrate in July 2013.
770. As for the allegations of torture and ill-treatment by police officers, the delegation stated that they were investigated.
771. The delegation noted that elected officials and members of the opposition were protected by national law and that no member should be prosecuted, investigated, arrested, detained or tried for his opinion in the performance of his duties, unless there was a flagrant offense where the lifting of immunity may be requested.
772. With regard to the freedom of association and expression, the delegation stated that the human rights defenders and journalists operated freely under the law.

2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome

773. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Chad, 15 delegations made statements. The statements of the delegations that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[33] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.
774. Algeria expressed satisfaction that the Chadian Government had implemented several programs aimed at strengthening the promotion and protection of human rights such as PRAJUST; the action plan on children associated with armed groups and forces and the national development plan. Algeria also appreciated the efforts undertaken by Chad to promote economic and social rights. It also reiterated its call to the international community to provide the necessary technical assistance and capacity building that would allow Chad to meet its human rights challenges.

775. Benin encouraged Chad to continue its efforts and achievements in terms of human rights, particularly in the areas of health, education, women's empowerment and child protection. It also urged Chad to intensify its efforts for the ratification of international instruments to which it was not yet a party, including the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights aimed at the abolition of the death penalty.

776. Botswana commended Chad for accepting many of the recommendations made during its second cycle. It welcomed the efforts by the Government in collaboration with UNICEF, to end the recruitment of children as soldiers; as well as for having withdrawn child soldiers from army and reintegrated them into society. Botswana also commended the approval of the national gender policy and the national strategy aimed at combating gender-based violence.

777. Burkina Faso welcomed the efforts of peace and international solidarity shown by Chad in Africa, especially in Mali and Central African Republic. It noted with satisfaction actions taken in favor disadvantaged people such as audits of age of soldiers conducted jointly with UNICEF; implementation of a programme of family reunification and reintegration of child soldiers. Burkina Faso also noted the efforts made to integrate into the domestic legislation provisions of international instruments ratified by Chad. It encouraged the authorities to complete its legislative reform regarding the Family and Personal Code, Criminal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure, Civil Code, Code on the Protection of Children and Code of Conduct of the Good Chadian Soldier.
778. China noted that Chad committed continuously to eradicate poverty, improve people’s living standards and achieve MDGs. China added that the authorities made greater efforts to combat violence against children and child trafficking. It encouraged Chad to actively implement its national development strategy, to give priority to agricultural and infrastructure development and to ensure that people had sufficient food. Finally, China urged the international community to provide active support and assistance to Chad.
779. The Côte d’Ivoire thanked the Chadian Government for its attention to the recommendations received during its review. It strongly encouraged the authorities to pursue institutional and legal reforms needed to strengthen the promotion and protection of human rights and pursue their actions to protect the most vulnerable.

780. Cuba noted with satisfaction the priorities that the Chadian authorities had set aimed at combating inequalities, poverty and social exclusion; improving governance; protecting the environment, and developing the rural sector and the basic economic infrastructure. It thanked Chad for accepting Cuban recommendations addressed to continue the implementation of programmes and measures regarding child labour, violence against women and persistence of poverty as well as to strengthen the ongoing efforts aimed at increasing the availability and quality of health services and education for all citizens.
781. Djibouti noted with satisfaction that Chad accepted most of the recommendations that it had received at its UPR. It also appreciated the commitment undertaken by Chad to promote and protect human rights.

782. Eritrea noted with satisfaction that Chad had taken on board most of the recommendations and had assured its commitment to implement them. It reaffirmed that the Eritrean delegation would continue to work closely with Chad in the spirit of constructive engagement and cooperation in all areas of mutual concern.
783. Gabon commended Chad for its ratification of many human rights instruments and welcomed the legislative amendment to make the National Human Rights Commission comply with the Paris Principles. It encouraged further reforms to strengthen economic, social and cultural rights as well as the rights of women and children. Gabon also called on the international community to support Chad.

784. Libya commended the positive human rights developments achieved by Chad. It welcomed the ratification and accession to several human rights treaties and the integration of international norms in the domestic legal framework. It noted that Chad was facing several challenges and obstacles promoting human rights such as social and cultural issues, limited financial capabilities, and limited human resources. It appreciated the positive approach of Chad toward the recommendations made during its UPR and encouraged it to ensure the implementation of these recommendations.

785. Mali welcomed the engagements undertaken by Chad which accepted most of the recommendations that it had received. It encouraged the Government to pursue the continuous improvement of the rights of its people.

786. Mauritania commended the cooperation of Chad with all the UN mechanisms, including the UPR. It noted the positive response and approach by Chad to its review through the implementation of supported recommendations and starting to implement other recommendations. It encouraged Chad to continue its efforts to overcome challenges and to achieve increased human rights promotion and protection.

787. Morocco supported the commitment of Chadian authorities to recover a legislative and policy environment which enable the development and enjoyment of the rule of law and human rights. It congratulated Chad for its commitment to an open social dialogue and progresses undertaken in the fight against poverty and in the health sector. Morocco also welcomed the reform of the judicial system through PRAJUST which involves increasing the number of courts and building or rehabilitating more than 10 prisons. Finally, it supported Chad request to the international community for technical assistance.
788. Niger mentioned the efforts undertaken by Chad through the ratification of international legal instruments relating to human rights and the incorporation into domestic law of the provisions of these instruments by the revision of numerous texts. It added that the recommendations addressed to Chad would allow it to intensify its efforts to further improve the promotion and protection of human rights.

3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
789. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Chad, five other stakeholders made statements.

790. The International Federation for Human Rights (FIDH) welcomed Chad’s acceptance of the recommendations asking for the ratification of the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance. Many cases of enforced disappearances, particularly linked to the 2008 attempted coup, remain unsolved. According to FIDH, it is necessary to establish the truth about the disappearance of Mahamat Saleh, one of the main political opponents, by making effective the conclusions and recommendations of the “Commission nationale d’enquête” which involve the highest military authorities. It is the same for the 136 prisoners who have disappeared since these events. FIDH remained concerned at the repression against the civil society, violations of the freedom of expression and the general impunity and non-respect of the independence of the justice as shown by the case of Jean Bernard Padaré, former Minister of Justice. According to FIDH, it is regrettable that Chad did not accept recommendations aimed at modifying the law on freedom of the press, putting an end to the intimidations against journalists and protecting them against arbitrary detention. FIDH regretted that Chad also rejected the recommendations aimed at guaranteeing the protection of elected people, opponents and human rights defenders. FIDH exhorted Chad to guarantee a safe and supportive environment for human rights defenders, investigate all the allegations of threats and attacks against them and punish the perpetrators of such acts.

791. Amnesty International was concerned by enforced disappearance, torture and ill-treatment, attacks against human rights defenders, journalists and political opponents and forced evictions. Even though it welcomed Chad’s acceptance of 119 recommendations, it regretted that many rejected recommendations addressed key human rights concerns. Amnesty International was disappointed with Chad’s rejection of recommendations to prevent and eliminate recruitment and use of children under 18 in armed conflict. Likewise, important recommendations relating to prevention and investigation of torture and other ill-treatment, including by law enforcement officers were rejected. Amnesty International was also disappointed by Chad’s failure to accept many recommendations related to freedom of expression and in particular to protect journalists, human rights defenders and political opponents, despite of well-founded reports of harassment against human rights defenders and political opponents. It also raised concerns at the lack of adequate investigation of enforced disappearance in particular into events in early 2008. Regarding violence against women and girls, Amnesty International welcomed Chad’s support of recommendations to ensure that women and girls who were victims of rape and other forms of violence be given medical assistance and psychological support as well as its commitment to protect women and girls from female genital mutilation.

792. OCAPROCE International welcomed all the positive findings observed in the UPR reports as well as the commitments made by the Chadian Government and encouraged it to continue its efforts in the area of education of women and children. OCAPROCE International also welcomed the recommendations of the States as well as relevant observations that were of concern in particular those relating to strengthening the promotion and protection of women's rights and children. The Government has undertaken efforts to strengthen the protection of women's rights and has developed a national gender policy and a strategy against gender-based violence. OCAPROCE International recommended that the sanctions against the perpetrators of violence against women and of feminine genital mutilations be implemented. It also recommended that a specific law to combat violence and discrimination against women be adopted. This law should prohibit, among other, early and forced marriage and marital rape.

793. Rencontre Africaine pour la Défense des Droits de l’Homme (RADDHO) stated that since its first UPR, Chad had made enormous progress in updating its initial and periodic reports at treaty bodies. It also appreciated that the Chadian Government had issued a standing invitation to the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. However, RADDHO remained concerned at the persistence of harmful traditional practices and violence against women and children. It exhorted Chad to take adequate measures to eradicate these practices particularly by the socio-professional reinsertion of the victims. Despite the repeal of press offenses by Chad, RADDHO noted recently the predominance of certain practices within society that limit freedom of expression. It is urgent that the authorities take steps to create a space for dialogue. It also invited Chad to intensify measures to put an end to the recruitment and use of child soldiers. RADDHO supported the commitment of the authorities to try the former dictator, Hissène Habré, in the framework of the fight against impunity in the country.

794. Tchad Agir pour l’Environnement et le Développement (TCHAPE) welcomed the intervention of the Chadian army in Central African Republic (CAR) that had saved thousands of lives regardless of gender, age and nationality. According to TCHAPE, if this action had not been taken by the Chadian army, one would face genocide like in Rwanda. The support of the international community is essential to assist people of CAR who have lost everything. TCHAPE asked for the prosecution of anyone involved in human rights violations and retaliation in CAR. Victims should be able to obtain justice and reparation. TCHAPE also called on the international community to support Chad in the establishment of a reforestation plan in refugee areas, because there was a risk of advanced deforestation, as had happened in the refugee camps in eastern Chad.

4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
795. The President stated that based on the information provided out of 174 recommendations received, 119 enjoy the support of Chand and the rest are noted.

796. The Chadian delegation welcomed the interest demonstrated by States and organizations to assist Chad in the area of human rights. As mentioned in the preliminary part, many recommendations have been already implemented or are in the process of implementation.

797. However, the delegation noted that the country had gone through a long period of armed conflict which had negatively influenced its development and had an impact on its human rights situation. It explained that, as part of the actions undertaken by the Government in terms of human rights, problems remained such as the persistence of harmful traditional practices, illiteracy, poverty and lack of state resources.
798. The delegation stated that Chad would respect all the international treaties that it had ratified and added that it was the Government's duty to ensure the well-being of its people by implementing legislation taking into account their aspirations and concerns.
799. Finally, the delegation thanked once again all the States for their recommendations and comments.
China

800. The review of China was held on 22 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by China in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/CHN/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/CHN/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/CHN/3 and A/HRC/WG.6/17/CHN/3/Corr.1).
801. At its 41st meeting, on 20 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of China (see section C below).
802. The outcome of the review of China comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/5 and A/HRC/25/5/Corr.1), the views of China concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group (see also A/HRC/25/5/Add.1).
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
803. China indicated that it attached great importance to the second round of its UPR. China had received 252 recommendations from various countries at the session of the Working Group last year. China stated that it established an inter-agency coordination mechanism, led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and joined by over 30 legislative, judicial and administrative departments to comprehensively consider the recommendations and extensively consult with various sectors of society. China stated that it had set a principle for itself, namely that it would adopt any recommendation that was suited to China’s national conditions, operable and conducive to China’s human rights development. China indicated that based on prudent studies and joint efforts, China had decided to accept 204 of the 252 recommendations, or 81% of the total, spanning over 20 areas, including poverty reduction, education and judicial reform.
804. The delegation stated that since last October the Government had taken many initiatives to advance the cause of human rights. In particular, the third Plenum of the 18th Chinese Communist Party’s (CPC) Central Committee held last November had made a host of major decisions to comprehensively deepen reform, which included “improving the human rights and judicial safeguard system”, among others. The delegation provided information that the recent Report on the Work of the Government adopted by the 12th National People’s Congress set forth new measures, including those for further promoting and protecting economic, social and cultural rights.
805. The delegation stated that the right to survival and development was the primary human right and China gave top priority to development. China stated that it was one of the few countries in the world that had formulated two human rights action plans. The plan for 2012-2015 was being implemented. The delegation highlighted that the Government was devoted to poverty alleviation and had made tremendous efforts to address old-age support, health care and other issues of special concern to the Chinese public. China stated that it had implemented a proactive policy for job creation. In 2013, China had created 13.1 million urban jobs. China stated that its 269 million migrant workers’ rights and interests were comprehensively safeguarded. In 2013, to ensure that each and every student enjoyed equal access to education, China had launched the project to alleviate poverty through education. In response to the evolving demographic situation, China stated that it had made a decision, last November, to implement the policy that allowed married couples to have two children if one parent were a single child.
806. The delegation stated that the third Plenum of the 18th CPC Central Committee had decided to further enhance the rule of law in China. At the end of last year, the National People’s Congress had adopted a decision to officially abolish the system of “re-education through labour”. China indicated that it had more internet users than any other country in the world. The delegation stated that the Government had always attached great importance to safeguarding the citizens’ rights to be informed, to participate, to be heard and to oversee in accordance with law, promoting open and free flow of information on the Internet. The delegation further stated that: the religions in China had developed in a sound manner; the religious community was enjoying solidarity and stability; and freedom of religious belief was effectively guaranteed for China’s citizens. Additionally, the delegation indicated that China followed the system of regional ethnic autonomy and that minority areas enjoyed preferential policies.
807. The delegation recalled that, in December 2013, China hosted the visit of the Human Rights Council’s Working Group on the issue of discrimination against women in law and in practice, and the visit had yielded positive outcomes. The delegation stated that China would arrange for the Special Rapporteur on the right to health, the Special Rapporteur on safe drinking water and sanitation, and the Independent Expert on the effects of foreign debt to visit China at a time of convenience for both sides. It was also indicated that China was communicating with the OHCHR on further cooperation.
808. In reply to other countries’ recommendations, China stated that it had decided not to accept some given by a small number of countries, for the following main reasons. First, it said that some recommendations could be taken as directions for China to work along, but were not practicable at the current stage. For instance, on ratifying the ICCPR or setting a timetable for that purpose, the delegation explained that China’s legislative bodies would determine the speed of ratification depending on the maturity of domestic conditions. Second, the delegation indicated that some recommendations were at odds with China’s realities and therefore not ready for implementation, for example, on the abolition of the death penalty for all crimes. Third, the delegation stated that a small number of countries had brought up recommendations that were inconsistent with the facts. China stated that there was no arbitrary or extrajudicial detention in China nor had anybody protecting human rights, within the framework of the law, been harassed.
809. The delegation indicated that in accordance with the Basic law and relevant legislation, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) would continue to protect human rights and freedoms; and that Macao Special Administrative Region (Macao SAR) continued to protect the various rights of its residents in accordance with law.
810. China stated that the Government had put forth the “two centenary goals” and the Chinese dream of achieving the great renewal of the Chinese nation. The delegation stated that 2014 marked the tenth anniversary of China’s writing into its Constitution that “the State respects and preserves human rights” and China would take that as an opportunity to open a new chapter in China’s human rights development.
2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
811. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of China, 13 delegations made statements. The statements of the delegations that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[34] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.
812. Cuba thanked China for its responses to the recommendations made during its second UPR cycle. Cuba drew attention to the implementation of the second National Human Rights Action Plan and progress on the rights to work and social security, education, health, development of cultural rights, rights of children and women, and freedom of religion. Cuba welcomed China’s acceptance of the recommendations it had made calling on China, inter alia, to investigate activities of fabrication and dissemination of false information and taking measures regarding persons engaged in unlawful Internet activities; and giving special treatment to ethnic minorities in politics, the economy, culture and education.
813. Djibouti noted with satisfaction that China had accepted the majority of the recommendations addressed to it during the UPR, including those made by Djibouti. Djibouti recognized the remarkable efforts and achievements in strengthening human rights in China and encouraged China to continue actions, including in the field of human rights education and awareness-raising.
814. Egypt was encouraged that China accepted all the recommendations it had made and over 80 per cent of recommendations received during the UPR Working Group. Egypt commended China’s important role in realizing the right to development globally, including through its efforts in the areas of South-South and Triangular cooperation. Conscious of the challenges that could exist for a country as demographically and geographically large as China, Egypt encouraged China to continue addressing the persisting challenges facing it, in accordance with a vision based on China’s national ownership and priorities.
815. Eritrea spoke highly of China focussing on the UPR as the main mechanism to achieve the goal of promoting and protecting the human rights of its people. Eritrea expressed satisfaction that all relevant recommendations were taken on board by China, including those made by Eritrea. Eritrea supported the approach followed by China in placing its own reality and challenges central to its consideration of the context, needs and betterment of the Chinese people.
816. The United States of America welcomed acceptance of recommendations, including those related to the ICCPR and urged its ratification and the end of all forms of arbitrary detention. It expressed deep concern that policies in ethnic Uighur, Tibetan and Mongolian areas of China had contributed to unrest and at the on-going detention of three activists. It was disappointed that China did not accept UPR recommendations relating to freedoms of peaceful assembly, association and expression, including on the internet. It remained concerned at the detention, including of Xu Zhiyong, Liu Xiaobo, and the house arrest of the Nobel laureate’s wife. It expressed concern at the death of Cao Shunli who sought to engage the Chinese Government on UPR issues and was detained for her efforts.
817. Gabon welcomed China’s cooperation with international human rights procedures and mechanisms. Gabon welcomed China’s prioritization of the right to development, while ensuring that such progress also benefited vulnerable groups, owing to their economic system which enabled the maintenance of sustained growth. In combating all forms of discrimination, Gabon encouraged China to continue taking all necessary measures to ensure the full enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for its people.
818. Germany welcomed China’s participation in the UPR. While noting positively the abolition of the “re-education through labour” system in law, Germany hoped the abolition would be fully implemented and not substituted by other forms of extra-legal detention. Germany stated that participation of civil society was part and parcel of the UPR process and that Ms. Cao Shunli had paid with her life for taking this engagement seriously. Germany urged China to establish the circumstances of her death and bring to justice those involved in her secret detention and decease; and to live up to its commitment to ensure unimpeded participation of civil society in the UPR as well as in public life in China.
819. India positively noted the receptive and constructive manner in which China participated in the UPR mechanism. With 137 interventions delivered and 252 recommendations made, India was encouraged that China accepted 204 of those recommendations, particularly the two made by India, including on the participation of women in public affairs and on strengthening the capacity for development in ethnic minority regions. India trusted that China would further intensify its efforts to implement the recommendations accepted by it in the coming years.
820. Iran (Islamic Republic of) commended the positive approach adopted by China in cooperating with international human rights mechanisms, including participation in the UPR. It referred to significant endeavours, including for economic and social development and the implementation of several action plans. It was pleased that both of its recommendations had been accepted and encouraged China to continue its constructive approach and build on what had been accomplished to achieve the further strengthening of its human rights system.
821. Ireland thanked China for accepting both its recommendations and the majority of those it received. Ireland encouraged China to submit a voluntary mid-term report on the implementation of recommendations. Ireland expressed deep concern that a well-known human rights defender, Ms. Cao Shunli, had died following the deterioration of her health in custody. Recalling the important role assigned to civil society in the UPR process by Council’s resolution 5/1 and other relevant documents, Ireland called on China, inter alia, to ensure unhindered access to and communication with international bodies, particularly the UN, including the Council and UPR.
822. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic was pleased to note that China accepted a large number of recommendations and had taken significant steps and actions for realising them. It noted that China had actively implemented the international instruments to which it was a party. It commended the Chinese Government for remarkable progress in protecting and promoting human rights, including the right to development for poor people and vulnerable groups.
823. Lebanon noted with appreciation the commitment and the comprehensive cooperation of China during its universal periodic review. It commended the measures adopted by China to promote and protect human rights, especially economic and social rights. It considered that the National Human Rights Action Plan reflected a concrete approach to strengthening China’s efforts to promote human rights. Lebanon welcomed China’s support of a significant number of recommendations made during its UPR.
824. The Sudan welcomed the positive approach of China to the universal periodic review. It encouraged China to continue its efforts to combat poverty in order to achieve human development. It commended the success of China to reduce unemployment rates through providing job opportunities for recent graduates. Sudan noted with appreciation China’s support for more than 200 recommendations, including the one it made.

3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
825. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of China, 9 other stakeholders made statements. The statements of the stakeholders that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[35] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.

826. International Service for Human Rights (ISHR) stated that it was manifestly untrue that an accepted recommendation was already implemented, as a flagrant case of “deadly reprisal” was that of Chinese human rights defender, Cao Shunli. ISHR further stated that she was arrested attempting to attend the Human Rights Council’s September session and, that while in prison, she was denied proper medical attention and died last week as a result. ISHR alleged that several human rights defenders had been disappeared or detained for allegedly showing support for her. ISHR said that Cao Shunli’s detention, ill-treatment and ultimately her death was manifestly incompatible with China’s obligations as a Council member. ISHR stated that it would use its remaining speaking time to observe a moment of silence.
827. China raised a point of order. China referred to Human Rights Council resolution 5/1 and para. 31 of its Annex, in which it was stated that “other relevant stakeholders will have the opportunity to make general comments before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary”. China stated that the time allocated for stakeholders to speak must only be used for making general comments and statements, in order to correspond to the Council’s rules of procedure: any other use of speaking time would countermand those rules.
828. Twelve delegations took the floor to support China’s point of order.[36] Nine delegations spoke against the point of order. [37]
829. Having listened to the various speakers and noting the different views expressed, the President recalled that in accordance with Human Rights Council resolution 16/21 it was crucial that individuals or groups wishing to cooperate with the Council and its mechanisms were able to do so. With regard to the issue of the use of speaking time, the President ruled that as this matter was of a procedural nature, he would take it to the Bureau for its consideration.
830. China objected to the President’s ruling, which was put to a vote. Of the 47 members of the Council called to vote, 45 were present and 2 absent. 13 voted in favour, 12 abstained and 20 voted against the President’s ruling.
831. World Organization against Torture (OMCT) regretted China’s refusal to consider ratifying OP-CAT and urged China to implement the recommendations of CAT. OMCT stated that torture remained rampant in China and that the reported abusive treatment of Tibetan monks and nuns was of particular concern. OMCT expressed concern at assertions by China that there were no arbitrary detentions and human rights defenders were not subjected to reprisals and referred to the reported detention of 94 Tibetan political prisoners since October 2013. OMCT called on the Human Rights Council to ensure accountability for the death of Chinese human rights defender, Cao Shunli, and for the human rights abuses she tried to bring to the international community’s attention. OMCT said that it fully supported the minute of silence.
832. In a joint statement, the Federatie van Nederlandse Verenigingen tot Integratie Van Homoseksualiteit (COC Nederland) and the International Lesbian and Gay Association (ILGA) fully supported the moment of silence. They referred to reports of widespread discrimination and stigma faced by LGBT persons in different settings and that no law mentioned discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. They encouraged China encouraged to close this gap in existing and future laws and regulations. They called upon China to: promote understanding and support of diversity, including in the media; promote the health of LGBT populations; adopt a domestic violence law that recognized survivors of same-sex intimate partner violence; simplify procedures for changing gender identity on legal documents; and permit LGBT NGOs to register officially.
833. China Disabled Person’s Federation (CDPF) stated that the Government solicited and respected opinions from NGOs, including from CDPF, when preparing the national report for the UPR last year. Referring to the Government’s efforts and achievements, CDPF noted that China amended and enacted a series of laws and regulations on disability in line with the non-discrimination principles of the UN Convention, integrated work on disability in programmes on development and adopted new action plans on disability. CDPF looked forward to further efforts to increase the financing of public services, improve the quality of services and establish a database for persons with disabilities. CDPF called for inclusion of the disability issue in the post-2015 development agenda.
834. International Federation for Human Rights Leagues (FIDH) together with two of its member organizations stated that they supported a moment of silence and appreciated the numerous recommendations made on civil society and human rights defenders.
835. China made a point of order requesting clarification as to the status of organizations referred to in the statement of the International Federation for Human Rights Leagues (FIDH).
836. The Secretariat referred to the practice of indicating the organizations supporting each statement made and clarified that FIDH, as a non-governmental organization with ECOSOC consultative status, would be reported as delivering this statement.
837. International Federation for Human Rights Leagues (FIDH) continued by referring to the recent trial of at least 11 human rights defenders and calling for an end to their prosecution and the urgent freeing of all persons arbitrarily detained, including five named persons. Mourning the death of defender, Cao Shunli, FIDH called for those responsible for her death to be held accountable. FIDH urged the reform of repressive laws and measures in ethnic areas and the addressing of the root causes of protests, such as self-immolations in order to realize China’s commitment to protect the rights of ethnic groups. FIDH urged further steps to ensure the effective monitoring of the implementation of recommendations.
838. Human Rights Watch (HRW) stated that it supported the moment of silence. HRW expressed concern at misleading claims in China’s outcome report, HRW asked why Cao Shunli had died and been detained, if as reported no one suffered reprisal for taking part in lawful activities and international mechanisms. According to HRW, the reported respect for the rights of ethnic minorities did not explain the basis for China’s allegations of “separatism” against a Uighur economist who criticized Governmental policies in Xinjiang, but explicitly rejected independence for that region. HRW stated that China’s response challenged not only the integrity of and China’s participation in the UPR process but also demonstrated that China did not uphold the highest standards in the promotion and protection of human rights.
839. Lawyers’ Rights Watch Canada (LRWC) stated that it supported the moment of silence. LWRC also said that the Council should be gravely concerned about the case of democracy activist Cao Shunli who peacefully campaigned for civil society input into China’s UPR process. LRWC referred to a 1.5 million signature petition to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights seeking an end to and an investigation of China’s alleged “slaughter of prisoners of conscience for organ procurement”; and to reported organ harvesting from mainly executed Falun Gong practitioners. LRWC stated that China prohibited lawyers from defending such practitioners and that the outcome report provided no meaningful response to documentation of China’s attacks on human rights lawyers.
840. Action Canada for Population and Development (ACPD) welcomed the Government’s actions taken to recognize the human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) people in China. ACPD noted the Government’s response that LGBTI people were equal before the law and should be protected under specific existing laws. ACPD stated that without a legal interpretation of the term “other aspects” as a forbidden ground of discrimination under current laws, LGBTI individuals were prevented from seeking court redress when encountering discrimination in schools or at the workplace. ACPD recommended either clarification of the term “other aspects” or specific inclusion of a reference to sexual orientation and gender identity in the laws.
841. Amnesty International (AI), while welcoming China’s commitment on participation, deeply deplored the death of Chinese activist Cao Shunli who campaigned for greater transparency and civil society participation in the UPR process. AI stated that the trials of members of the “New Citizens Movement” had shown numerous procedural flaws. AI reported that legitimate and peaceful public participation had been criminalized, under charges such as “disturbing the public order”. AI welcomed the step to abolish “re-education through labour” but pointed to evidence of the continued use of arbitrary detention, including in legal education centres and in house detention. AI reported that forced evictions of people from their homes or farmland had become a routine occurrence in China and represented a gross violation of human rights. AI stated that ethnic minorities including Tibetans, Uighurs and Mongolians continued to experience severe discrimination.
4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
842. The President stated that based on the information provided out of 252 recommendations received 204 enjoy the support of China and the rest are noted.
843. The Chinese delegation stated that it had listened to all parties attentively. It further indicated that many countries and organizations had made positive comments on China’s new achievements to develop human rights; and that they had commended China’s openness and sincerity in receiving the Universal Periodic Review (UPR). The delegation expressed its thanks to them for also recognizing China’s efforts to implement the recommendations it had accepted and its support to the Council in considering and adopting the Working Group’s report.
844. Referring to opinions raised by some countries and organizations, the delegation stressed the following three points. First, the principle that “the State respects and preserves human rights” was enshrined in China’s Constitution, which meant that China acknowledged the universality of human rights and its human rights protection mechanism served every Chinese person. At the same time, the delegation stated, that all citizens and organizations should abide by law and that anyone who had breached the law or violated others’ rights and interests would be held accountable.
845. Second, the delegation stated that the path of human rights development independently chosen by China deserved respect. Different localities had different customs and traditions. According to the delegation, the kind of path a country chose for its human rights development should comply with the country’s history and culture, fit its economic and social development and be approved by its own people.
846. Third, China stated that it opposed politicization and double standards on human rights issues. According to the delegation, some countries adopted a selective approach in evaluating human rights and such a practice did not convince people. China further stated that some non-governmental organizations openly violated the rules of procedure of the Council and the meeting order, which could not be accepted. The delegation stated that the majority of Council members, through the voting, clearly registered their strong opposition to such practice.
847. The delegation stated that the UPR was an important United Nations procedure for member States to review human rights on an equal footing and through cooperation and dialogue. The Chinese Government had taken that as an important opportunity to fulfil its human rights commitments and hear the views from various parties. The delegation affirmed that China would continue to uphold the effective operation of the UPR mechanism, earnestly put into practice the recommendations it had accepted and promote and protect human rights through concrete efforts.
Monaco

848. The review of Monaco was held on 28 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Monaco in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MCO/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MCO/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MCO/3).
849. At its 42th meeting, on 21 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Monaco (see section C below).
850. The outcome of the review of Monaco comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/12), the views of Monaco concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group (see also A/HRC/25/12/Add.1).
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
851. The Ambassador of the Permanent Mission of Monaco thanked all delegations which intervened during the working group of the universal periodic review (UPR) on the 28 October 2013. The Principality of Monaco has carefully examined all comments and recommendations which were formulated during the UPR and has stated its position in an addendum transmitted to the Human Rights Council in February 2014.
852. The preparation of the second review has mobilized many of Monaco’s human resources, which demonstrated again Monaco’s commitment towards the promotion and protection of human rights and its support for the UPR mechanism. The delegation recalled that, as part of this preparation, the Government of Monaco did not fail to consult with representatives of civil society. Similarly, she highlighted the participation in the UPR of the President of the Foreign Relations Committee of the National Council of Monaco, which is the Parliament.

853. Regarding the 81 recommendations received, the delegation stressed that 51 were fully supported by the Principality of Monaco. For a number of these recommendations, the implementation was already underway. In other cases, the recommendations referred to actions already implemented, for which continuity must be ensured.

854. In this respect, the Ambassador mentioned in particular, the creation in 2013 of a High Commissioner for the protection of rights, freedoms and mediation, mandated to process appeals and disagreements between users or citizens and the administration and public services, which included the executive services depending on the direct authority of the Minister of State as well as services of the administration of justice, the National Council, the municipality and public institutions. The office of the High Commissioner was surrounded by a number of guarantees referring specifically to its neutrality, impartiality and its functional and financial independence.

855. The delegation explained that eleven recommendations formulated could not be supported either because they seemed to be unsuitable to the situation of the country or because Monaco had chosen different mechanisms to achieve similar goals.

856. The ratification of the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families was not considered because of existing specificities in the Principality of Monaco related to job priorities and housing for national citizens.

857. Concerning discrimination in the field of employment, the delegation recalled that the Constitution, laws and regulations in force in the Principality of Monaco did not contain any discrimination based on race, color, sex, language or religion. The employment priority for Monaco’s citizens was only intended to protect national citizens, which are a minority in their own country, with the aim that they could find employment in their country.
858. Monaco could not make any commitment towards the implementation of the advisory opinion of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe with regards to the Monegasque Constitution.

859. The Principality of Monaco does not intend to decriminalize defamation in so far as, although being an independent criminal offense, it does not constitute an obstacle to the freedom of expression.
860. The delegation explained that the eligibility of naturalized Monegasque was provided by the Monegasque Constitution and subjected only to a condition related to age and duration of possession of nationality.

861. The delegation pointed out that the independence of the judiciary was fully guaranteed by existing provisions of the Constitution and the Monegasque legislation.

862. During the review, the Principality of Monaco had committed to providing a response to a certain number of recommendations.

863. Concerning the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, related studies have been launched by the Principality of Monaco. Before taking any decision about a possible ratification, the Government was awaiting the finalization of such studies.
864. On the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the Principality of Monaco could not engage to the extent that the country had only one prison, in which between 20 and 30 detainees were serving short term sentences. Such prison is not a detention centre as such.
865. According to the delegation, the ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court would require a deep reform of several provisions, first and foremost the Constitution, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Consequently, Monaco could not provide a formal response but it committed to continue current reflections. Nevertheless, the Principality of Monaco was determined to cooperate with the International Criminal Court, in cases where collaboration was requested by the Court. The delegation stressed that the Principality had already executed a request of mutual assistance from the Prosecutor of the Court.
866. Although Monaco already signed the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance in 2007, a later review of the treaty provisions had revealed inconsistencies with the provisions of Monegasque law, of a constitutional and legislative nature. Thus, Monaco could not engage firmly today to ratify this Convention.

867. Finally, the delegation stressed that the accession to the International Labour Organization and certain of its conventions raised issues particularly with regards to the existing system of employment priority in the Principality of Monaco, which would require a deep reform. Therefore, the Principality could not provide a formal response but committed to continuing ongoing studies.

868. In conclusion, the delegation thanked the President of the Human Rights Council, members of the Troika (Guatemala, Uganda and the Philippines) and the High Commissioner for Human Rights. The Ambassador hoped that the second UPR has highlighted the progress made by the Principality of Monaco, which will continue to work with the utmost determination, both nationally and internationally, in defense of the most vulnerable people.
2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
869. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Monaco, 6 delegations made statements.
870. Nigeria thanked Monaco’s cooperation and engagement with the UPR and the High Commissioner for Human Rights. It commended Monaco’s commitment towards enshrining international human rights conventions into domestic statutes. Nigeria encouraged the Government to remain devoted to promote and protect human rights of citizens and residents of Monaco. It urged the country to protect the human rights of irregular migrants and called on Monaco to endeavour to protect the human rights of all races within its territory. Nigeria supported the adoption of Monaco’s outcome and wished Monaco every success in the implementation of accepted recommendations.
871. The Republic of Moldova commended Monaco on its commitment to human rights and its cooperation with the UPR. It welcomed Monaco’s acceptance of most recommendations addressed during its review and the actions undertaken towards their implementation. It recognised the establishment of the High Commissioner for the protection of rights, freedoms and mediation as well as the guarantees related to its impartiality and functional and financial independence. It appreciated the acceptance of the recommendation made by the Republic of Moldova to protect migrant workers against all forms of discrimination, including access to health and social services, and encouraged Monaco to continue its positive actions in that area. The Republic of Moldova wished Monaco every success in the implementation and follow up of accepted recommendations.
872. Togo commended Monaco’s commitment in the area of international solidarity with respect to the most disadvantaged segments of the population and those hardly affected by conflicts. It thanked Monaco for having accepted most of the recommendations submitted during its second review, including those formulated by Togo. It congratulated Monaco for its full cooperation with the UPR and wished every success in the implementation of accepted recommendations.
873. Viet Nam thanked Monaco for the update as to recent developments in the promotion and protection of human rights. It welcomed Monaco’s commitment to the protection and promotion of human rights in general and to the UPR in particular. Viet Nam reaffirmed its highest appreciation for the efforts undertaken as well as its contribution to international cooperation in this field. It was pleased to note Monaco’s acceptance of a good number of recommendations issued during the UPR, including recommendations made by Viet Nam. It invited the Human Rights Council to adopt the report of the UPR working group of Monaco.
874. Algeria noted with satisfaction Monaco’s acceptance of more than fifty recommendations addressed during its UPR, including one of them made by Algeria concerning the establishment of an independent human rights structure. It regretted the fact that Monaco did not accept Algeria’s second recommendation to ratify the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. Algeria recommended the adoption of the outcome and wished Monaco all success in the implementation of accepted recommendations.
875. The Council of Europe, while welcoming measures already taken by Monaco to address issues raised by monitoring bodies of the Council of Europe, evoked recommendations made to Monaco by those monitoring bodies. It particularly stressed the problems related to the discrimination of foreigners and insufficient overall procedural guarantees against discrimination as recommended by ECRI and the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as shortcomings in the prevention of corruption in public administration and transparency of legal persons and of party funding as identified by GRECO. It welcomed the establishment of a national human rights institution, which was a priority area for the Council of Europe. It invited Monaco to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence.
876. Cuba highlighted improvements in the areas of protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and of protection of women and children. It noted however that Monaco had still several human rights challenges. It appreciated the acceptance of recommendations issued by Cuba and wished Monaco every success in the implementation of recommendations of the second cycle of the UPR.
3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
877. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Monaco, no other relevant stakeholder made statements.

4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
878. The President stated that based on the information provided out of 81 recommendations received 51 enjoy the support of Monaco and the rest are noted
879. The Ambassador of the Permanent Mission of Monaco expressed her gratitude to the President of the Human Rights Council and the secretariat of the High Commissioner for Human Rights for their assistance during the preparation of Monaco’s UPR in October and for the review of its report today. She also warmly thanked all delegations that intervened in this session and that in most cases had encouraged Monaco and had highlighted Monaco’s progress since its previous review.

880. To answer a question made by the representative of the Council of Europe, she concluded her intervention by explaining that the Istanbul Convention was under review by Monaco’s legal services and complementary information had recently been sent to the Group of States against Corruption of the Council of Europe (GRECO).

Congo

881. The review of the Congo was held on 30 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by the Congo in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/COG/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/COG/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/COG/3).
882. At its 42th meeting, on 21 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of the Congo (see section C below).
883. The outcome of the review of the Congo comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/16), the views of the Congo concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group (see also A/HRC/25/16/Add.1).
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
884. The delegation which was led by His Excellency Mr. Bienvenu Okiemy, Minister of Communications and Relations with the Parliament, reaffirmed its thanks to all countries for their high quality participation in the interactive debate on the Congo during the Working Group. It applauded the valuable contribution of the members of the Troika in drawing up the final report.

885. His Excellency Mr. Bienvenu Okiemy underlined that the Congo has supported the Universal Periodic Review since its establishment. The Congo has been mobilized and spared no effort to consolidate the foundations of a free society where respect for the rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens continue to be a vital prerequisite, a society governed by the rule of law so as to promote national cohesion because of the strengthening of the Congolese social contract.

886. The Congo has accepted 161 recommendations out of 171 that were submitted to it. 7 recommendations have been taken up for study whereas 3 others were not supported. Most of the recommendations which the Congo has accepted were already being implemented and could be clustered thematically.

887. Concerning the signature and ratification of international human rights instruments, the Congo was a party to most of them. In this context, it just ratified on 14 March 2014 the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto. Moreover, the procedure to ratify the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child introducing a communication procedure has already commenced. The Congo restated its undertaking to continue the process of acceding to and ratifying the international human rights instruments to which it was not yet a party.

888. Regarding the reform of legal and judicial codes, the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights has tackled the objective of establishing a framework for exchanging views and building up positions to develop mechanisms and necessary strategies for a sweeping reform of all the codes governing the judiciary and prison system. A commission has been already established for implementing this reform effort. The European Union was providing major support for this initiative. This large-scale reform will help to cross a new border.

889. With respect to women's rights, the status of women in the Congo has improved over the years, with progress being made in the areas of gender equality, training, employment and the participation rate of women in the public life. However, some obstacles linked to the socio-cultural context had still to be overcome by means of education and greater awareness. Since January 2014, the Government has embarked on a wide-ranging campaign on women’s rights.

890. As regards the rights of the child, Congolese policy on these rights was based on two central pillars: the active participation in international instruments on the rights of the child and the enhancement of international cooperation as well as the strengthening of the national legal framework protecting the rights of the child.

891. On the rights of minorities and vulnerable social groups, the normative framework was based on the principle of equality. The enactment of Law No. 5-2011 of 25 February 2011 on the promotion and protection of the rights of indigenous peoples was a major step and the Congo was the first country in Africa to have such legislation thanks to progress made in the area of education and health of indigenous peoples.

892. Regarding the submission of national reports on human rights to treaty bodies, Congo’s national report on the implementation of the CRC has been reviewed by the Committee in January 2014. Reports have been submitted to CAT, CESCR and CEDAW.

893. On the fight against torture, His Excellency Mr. Bienvenu Okiemy stated that in accordance with the provisions of Articles 9 and 10 of the Constitution, the practice of torture was forbidden in absolute terms. Where allegations of torture or deaths in custody are proven, the perpetrators are punished in accordance with the criminal provisions in force. By way of illustration, 4 police officers have just been dismissed from the national police force because of offenses of indecent assault with violence, 15 others have been brought before competent courts.

894. Concerning the conditions of detention, the Congo has embarked on a program of rehabilitation and construction of prison facilities. Prisons in Mossaka, Owando, Ewo, Ouesso, Impfondo have been built and some of them rehabilitated. Two prison centres were under construction in Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire with respectively a capacity of 1500-1700 places and 600 places. Congolese prisons were open to all requests from human rights NGOs and other institutions in accordance with legal texts on the protection of human rights. To solve the problem of lengthy pre-trial detention, the Minister of Justice and Human Rights has recently taken measures to accelerate procedures for conditional release of prisoners.

895. The independence of the justice system was guaranteed by Article 136 of the Constitution. Judicial proceedings were conducted in strict compliance with the law. Policy of strengthening the capacity of the judicial and prison institutions was being forged. The trigger for this policy was the reform of the judicial map which allowed establishing new courts so as to bring justice closer to citizens. These include six High Courts and a dozen of ordinary Courts. To make this approach more consistency, 500 young judges have been recruited in last few years, and 300 others have been trained in the Congo and abroad.

896. Regarding 7 recommendations Nos. 113-1 to 113-7 under consideration, the Congo accepted the recommendation No. 113-1 on the ratification of the Kampala amendments relating to the Rome Statute. Similarly, it accepted the recommendation No. 113-3 on acceding to the Optional Protocol to the CRC establishing a communications procedure as well as recommendation No. 113-4 on cooperation with the International Criminal Court which was being implemented.

897. With respect to recommendation No. 113-2 on the ratification of the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court, the Congo as a member State of the African Union was not yet planning to ratify this agreement until such time as the final position of the African Union was known on the subject. Therefore, this recommendation was not accepted.

898. On recommendations Nos. 113-5, 113-6 and 113-7 relating to the standing invitation to thematic special procedures mandate holders, the Congo affirmed its commitment to cooperate with all United Nations institutions including those of the Human Rights Council. Cooperation between the Congo and the special procedures of the Council has taken tangible forms in the last few years with the visit of the Special Rapporteur on the human rights of indigenous peoples in 2010 and the visit of the Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearance in 2011. The Congo intended to maintain this cooperation and requests for working visits made by special procedures will be given particular attention by the Congolese Government. These 3 recommendations have not been supported by the Congo.

899. Having experienced difficult hours in the tumult of internal conflicts, violence and the denial of human rights, the Congo has entered a phase of stability and was engaged in a process of robust development. The Congo needed time to achieve better results but observers agreed that it was on the right track.
2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
900. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of the Congo, 13 delegations made statements. The statements of the delegations that were unable to deliver them owing to time constraints[38] are posted on the extranet of the Human Rights Council, if available.
901. Rwanda appreciated the Congo’s commitments to the UPR process which was demonstrated by its detailed response on the recommendations issued to it during the second UPR cycle. Rwanda took note of the Congo’s acceptance of a large number of recommendations including those made by Rwanda.
902. Senegal welcomed the ongoing commitment and full cooperation of the Congo to the UPR mechanism. This attested the country’s will and desire to pursue the protection, promotion and full enjoyment of human rights. Senegal remained convinced that the Congo will spare no effort in implementing the recommendations accepted in order to enhance the living conditions of its people, particularly in the rural areas.
903. Sri Lanka noted that the Congo has accepted 161 of the 171 recommendations made during its review, including the two made by Sri Lanka on reducing the rates of unemployment and underemployment among youth and on promoting the enrolment of girls at all levels of education. Sri Lanka acknowledged the Congo’s commitment to continue its cooperation with the United Nations, the Human Rights Council and its mechanisms. It was noteworthy that since its first UPR, the Congo has become party to several international instruments including the two Optional Protocols to the CRC. Sri Lanka was also pleased to observe that the Congo has taken measures to strengthen its national normative framework.
904. Sudan noted the Congo’s commitment to cooperate on an ongoing basis with the UPR mechanism. The Congo received 171 recommendations which were mainly positive and constructive. Sudan welcomed the immediate acceptance by the Congo of 161 recommendations.
905. Togo congratulated the Congo on its full cooperation with the UPR mechanism and its commitment vis-à-vis universally shared values of human rights. Togo was pleased to note that the Congo has accepted almost all of the recommendations including those issued by Togo. It requested the support and assistance from the international community to be provided to the Congo in implementing the accepted recommendations.
906. Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) appreciated the full cooperation and commitment of the Congo to the UPR mechanism. In the timeframe of the consideration, Venezuela has noted significant progress made by the country in terms of human rights. Venezuela was pleased to note the efforts of the Government in fighting poverty and its significant results achieved regarding access to education and employment.
907. Algeria noted with satisfaction the efforts made by the Congo in its normative and institutional levels to promote and protect human rights. It also commended efforts made by the Congo by continuing a sweeping structural reform programme and strengthening governance. The Congo has recorded important results in the area of consolidating democracy and has helped to strengthen peace. Algeria welcomed the efforts made to promote the enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights.
908. Angola noted with satisfaction that the Congo has accepted virtually all of the recommendations put forward to it, in particular the ones put forward by Angola. Angola welcomed the progress achieved in the Congo in consolidating peace, security and institutional stability. Indeed, this progress has enabled the strengthening of democratic institutions as well as the improvement of the living conditions of the people which will help to reduce poverty and build the rule of law.
909. Belarus noted the constructive approach the Congo has taken to interact within the UPR mechanism. This was a country which was still in a situation of post conflict which was taking serious steps aimed at strengthening the rule of law and promoting human rights, developing national potential in this area. Belarus also welcomed the measures undertaken to ensure social, economic and cultural rights as well as efforts towards improving the living conditions of the people and eradicating poverty. Belarus noted the Congo’s serious approach to implementing the UPR first cycle recommendations and the fact that it has accepted most of the recommendations in the second cycle.
910. Benin praised the efforts undertaken by the Congo contained in its second UPR report. Benin encouraged the Congo to pursue its efforts and achievements in terms of uploading human rights, particularly in the area of education, health care, empowerment of women, child protection as well as the justice system. Benin urged the Congo to step up its efforts to ratify international legal instruments to which it was not yet a party.
911. Botswana noted that Congo’s acceptance of many of the recommendations made during the second cycle of their UPR demonstrated its commitment for the promotion and protection of human rights. Botswana also noted progress made in addressing human rights of women and children, in particular measures taken to combat trafficking in persons involving children and women. Botswana commended the Congo for the efforts made to address issues of gender equality. It also welcomed the Congo’s ratification of various human rights instruments, including the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.
912. Burkina Faso stated that the exercise which the Congo was undergoing for the second time and for which it accepted almost all recommendations demonstrated its commitment to better protect and promote human rights. Burkina Faso noted that significant progress has been made, particularly in terms of reducing poverty and protecting the rights of women, children, the elderly, persons with disability, indigenous peoples as well as the fight against corruption in the justice system.
913. Chad thanked the Congo for sharing its stand on the various recommendations submitted to it during its review in October 2013. Chad congratulated the Congo for the efforts made to ensure that its people enjoy economic, social and cultural rights.
3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
914. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of the Congo, 5 other stakeholders made statements.

915. In a joint statement, Istituto Internazionale Maria Ausiliatrice delle Salesiane di Don Bosco, Volontariato Internazionale Donna Educazione Sviluppo and Catholic International Education Office welcomed the attitude of the Congo during the second UPR. They especially welcomed the recommendation accepted to ensure the implementation of a birth registration system which was free of charge and free from corruption. They encouraged the Congo to ensure the efficient implementation of relevant measures in this regard. On the right to education, they commended the recommendations accepted on the quality and access to education without gender distinction. They encouraged the efficient implementation of recommendation 112-15 to prevent school dropout and to ensure continuous education, in particular for disadvantaged families. They also requested that the Congo adopt specific measures to reduce health risks relating to early pregnancy and to ensure reintegration of young mother in the education system. They finally requested that the Congo promote decent work of persons with disability.
916. Organisation pour la Communication en Afrique et de Promotion de la Coopération Economique Internationale (OCAPROCE Internationale) welcomed the efforts made by the Congo to overcome gender inequality. Nevertheless, it was very alarmed about legal provisions, customary practices and discriminatory local traditions relating to marriage, inheritance and property rights. It requested that the Congolese Government pursue its efforts to ensure that the distribution of decision-making process was equitable in terms of access of women and to ensure the effective implementation of the economic, social and cultural rights for women and children in the country.
917. In a joint statement, Action internationale pour la paix et le développement dans la région des Grands Lacs and Comité International pour le Respect et l’Application de la Charte Africaine des Droits de l’Homme et des Peuples (CIRAC) stated that they have taken note with satisfaction of the commitment taken by the Congo in order to ensure the promotion and full enjoyment of all rights recognized by the various human rights instruments. However, they voiced their concern as to the specific implementation of this commitment, particularly with respect to the freedom of expression, the effective enjoyment of economic and social rights by the Congolese people, impunity which the perpetrators of serious human rights violations still enjoy, barriers to the good functioning and independence of the judiciary, weak resources allocated to the education sector, training and health for all in accordance with the Millennium Development Goals. Cases of arbitrary detention and harassment have been brought to their knowledge and were a source of major concern. Consequently, they urged the Congo to do its utmost in order to fully comply with its commitments in terms of protection of human rights which constituted the basis for true stability in the region – Central Africa – which was prone to serious upheaval linked to endless crisis in the Great Lakes region and the Republic of Central Africa.
918. Franciscans International reaffirmed its concern regarding corruption in the management of State resources which undermined the capacity of the State to provide services on a fair basis, particularly in health sector. It asked that the Congolese Government urgently adopt specific measures to combat corruption in health system so as to guarantee high quality access to health services of the entire population, including the most disadvantaged members. Franciscans International appealed that the Congo implement immediately and effectively the recommendation regarding birth registration so as to guarantee a universal free of charge system for birth registration.
919. Rencontre Africaine pour la défense des droits de l’homme (RADDHO) recalled that the Congo has accepted 51 recommendations during its first UPR but most of these recommendations have not yet been implemented on the ground. In its view, the obstacles to the implementation of UPR recommendations were related to the following facts: corruption in the judiciary system and the administration, a culture of impunity, prisons overcrowding, torture to obtain confessions in police stations, exploitation of children and ill-treatment of women. In this context, RADDHO called upon the Congo to particularly combat ethno-centrism in the way it managed power in the country through developing an educational system for human rights, so as to promote a true civic culture; guarantee the independence of the justice system and judges; and take provisions to create a peaceful atmosphere of political dialogue to promote the organization of the elections in the near future. RADDHO finally called on the Congo to take appropriate measures to eliminate disparities in the distribution of the benefit of natural resources of the country, in particular in regions of Likouala, Lalekoumou, Plateaux, Niari, Sangha and Pool.
4. Concluding remarks of the State under review
920. The President stated that on the basis of the information provided, out of 171 recommendations received, 164 recommendations enjoyed the support of the Congo and the rest were noted.

921. His Excellency Mr. Bienvenu Okiemy thanked delegations which took the floor. He underlined that democracy was the Congo’s ultimate goal to establish the legal framework providing for the protection of human rights. The reforms that have been introduced had been to the end of achieving this objective. Regarding corruption, a national observatory to combat corruption has been established among other mechanisms. Of course, here and there one could see violations of the rule of law. In this case, the justice system was the answer.

922. Since the independence to date, Congolese social contract was based on the law and democracy. The efforts that have been made also went towards accessibility to education and health care services, including for indigenous peoples as well as the improvement of detention conditions. His Excellency Mr. Bienvenu Okiemy concluded that the Congo needed time to solve issues it was facing. All countries of the world went through the same process.

Malta

923. The review of Malta was held on 30 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Malta in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MLT/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MLT/2);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/MLT/3).
924. At its 42nd meeting, on 21 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Malta (see section C below).
925. The outcome of the review of Malta comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/17), the views of Malta concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group (see also A/HRC/25/17/Add.1).
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
926. The delegation reaffirmed the commitment of Malta to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other landmark documents. The provisions for specific rights had been progressively implemented in the constitutional development. Malta has been planning to set up a national human rights institution in conformity with the Paris Principles.
927. The delegation stated that the universal periodic review (UPR) has been a unique mechanism that has had a far-reaching positive impact since its inception. Through it, the global community examined and addressed the human rights performance of all member states of the United Nations, periodically and without distinction. The UPR has been about dialogue and the sharing of best practices among states and stakeholders. It has been about the full cooperation and engagement with the Human Rights Council, the Human Rights Treaty bodies and the High Commissioner for Human Rights. It was for these reasons and more that the Government attached great importance to the UPR.
928. One of the highlights of the UPR has been its success in heightening the attention of States and governments to undergo a process of internal review through an extensive inter-ministerial consultation. In case of Malta, this had been an extremely useful and forward looking exercise. It helped create expert teams committed to collaborate further within and beyond the mandated scope of the UPR. Equally important, has been the continued dialogue between the Government and civil society. The invaluable contribution of civil society was welcome, ascertaining a degree of ownership and inclusiveness by civil society in the overall undertaking.
929. In examining the 134 recommendations made during the second cycle, the Government had undergone an intense exercise with an objective to further improve upon its past achievements. Some of the recommendations put forward during the working group that was held in 2013, had already been implemented or developed into Maltese policy. Furthermore, a number of recommendations were similar in nature. The positions of the Government on recommendations dealing with the same subject matter were grouped accordingly to address the issue. Other recommendations were rather ambiguous or considered too general. In instances where countries made recommendations linking two issues on which Malta had different positions, the position of the Government was presented to address each subject specifically.
930. The delegation stated that recommendations with the status of ‘accepted in part’ referred to those where Malta supported the principle and idea behind the recommendation, but were not, as yet, in a position to fulfil it. The Government did not consider all the recommendations as being on the same level. Some recommendations could not be fully accepted as they have been still subject to internal considerations and hence, it was felt that accepting them at this stage could prejudice internal considerations. Other recommendations were rejected either because Government had no intention to change its present policy or because it deemed that such recommendations had been already addressed in its legislation and policies.
931. The delegation provided some additional explanation regarding to Malta’s position on a number of recommendations. In respect to the ratification of international instruments and the human rights protection, Malta has been party to various international covenants and the Government has taken various legislative initiatives aimed at further safeguarding the implementation of human rights. Malta has been planning to continue its accession process to the core human rights treaties by instituting new legislation addressing various human rights aspects. However, Malta was not in a position to accede to all treaties and conventions. One such case was the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families.
932. A number of specialised national commissions, commissioners and authorities had been set up with specific mandates to protect vulnerable groups and guarantee the protection of their rights. Those included the National Commission for the Promotion of Equality; the National Commission Persons with Disability; the Commissioner for Children; the National Employment Authority and the Commissioner for Voluntary Organisations. Furthermore, Malta remained committed to strengthen the rule of law and good governance in order to safeguard, protect and promote human rights and freedoms.
933. Regarding equality and gender balance, the delegation reported that the Parliament has been discussing a ‘Bill on Civil Unions’ which aimed at regulating civil unions between two persons of the same or of different sex. It was proposed in the Bill that a civil union, once registered, shall have the corresponding effects and consequences in law of civil marriage. While the Government remained committed to sustain the traditional family model, as the fundamental unit of society, it has embarked upon legislation that did not discriminate against any form of other family model.
934. The Bill would also strengthen the laws on discrimination. Persons who use any threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour, or else display any written or printed material which is threatening, abusive or insulting with the intent of stirring up violence or hatred on these grounds would become liable to imprisonment upon conviction. This amendment would ensure that no law entails any provision that is discriminatory, nor may any person acting by virtue of any written law cause a person to experience discriminatory treatment on the ground of sexual orientation.
935. Malta further safeguarded the rights of transgender persons. The amendments to the Civil Code removed the legal obstacles for persons who had undergone a legally recognised change in sex to be considered as pertaining to the acquired sex for all intents and purposes of civil status, including marriage.
936. Following the extension of the remit of the National Commission for the Promotion of quality (NCPE) the Commission has been working to develop a human rights culture through capacity building. Moreover, through a transnational cooperation with other equality bodies, research has been planned to outline various formal and informal working processes that were utilised in the equality bodies in order to implement the respective obligations on equal treatment.
937. NCPE has been working on various initiatives with the aim of increasing the number of women in decision-making positions, including empowering and enabling women to take up decision-making positions, and supporting and advising policy makers on gender-balance in decision-making.
938. The NCPE also provided training on racism and xenophobia that was tailored according to the needs of the respective groups including migrants. Moreover, NCPE carried out research to develop a national action plan against racism and xenophobia.
939. Regarding the rights of persons with disabilities, the delegation reassured the Government’s commitment towards ensuring that all socially or culturally constructed barriers were overcome, and strong legislation was made available, to ensure the protection and consolidation of human rights for persons with disabilities. The Government was committed to providing a variety of alternatives so that persons with disabilities could receive a service of their choice, tailor-made and developed around the needs, aspirations and requirements of the respective individuals. In the area of education, independent living, accessibility to multimedia, the Government had either its own structures to provide the necessary support or engaged with the voluntary sector to ensure that such services were provided as necessary.
940. In respect to the rights of asylum seekers, the Government noted with appreciation the fact that delegations recognised the disproportionate pressures Malta had been facing because of the influx of irregular migrants. Notwithstanding those challenges, Malta remained committed to do its utmost to keep honouring its international obligations and ensure that their human rights and dignity are protected.
941. The delegation stated that, in view of the Government, its detention centres already met international standards and that efforts had been undertaken to ensure upkeep and, where necessary, improvement of conditions. Additionally, Malta had been pursuing policy reform at the European level as the challenges of migration could not be addressed by Malta acting alone, but in cooperation with neighbouring countries and the European Union.
942. Irregular migrants had the possibility to challenge their detention, as well as the right to file an asylum application. They also had access to health and other benefits. In 2015, reforms have been planned to the migration and detention policies as well as integration-oriented initiatives with a view to comply with the re-cast Reception Conditions Directive, which would be transposed into national legislation. Reasons why asylum applicants might be detained would also be introduced in the Reception of Asylum Seekers (Minimum Standards) Regulations, as per Article 8(3) of the Directive. New legislative provisions in the Immigration Act and the Reception of Asylum Seekers (Minimum Standards) Regulations introducing the possibility to challenge detention as per Article 9(3) of the Directive would be introduced.
943. The delegation indicated that Warehouse II at Safi Detention Centre was refurbished. Further refurbishment initiatives were also conducted in 2012 to Hermes Block at Lyster Detention Centre. Moreover, under the European Refugee Fund Emergency Funds 2012 a number of initiatives had been conducted to improve the reception facilities of the service users. All tents were removed from the Hal Far Tent Village and replaced by 100 modern mobile homes through the European Refugee Fund Emergency Measures 2011. The success of this initiative was again repeated under European Refugee Fund Emergency Measures 2012 when a further 100 units were installed to upgrade another Open Centre at Hal-Far.
944. Several initiatives were undertaken as a result of the National Action Plan on Combating Trafficking, including among others an awareness campaign and training activities for stakeholders in the sector, and the adoption of the National Indicators for the Identification of Trafficking Victims.
945. The delegation explained that while Malta agreed with the principle that unaccompanied minors should not be detained, however, no amendments to legislation would be required to prevent the detention of such minors. In particular, the criminal law did not feature provisions relating to the detention of unaccompanied minors.
946. The Government’s firm commitment to strengthen the human rights and equality framework was reflected in a number of decisions taken during the past months. Earlier March, 2014 Malta announced that it would be the fourth EU member-state to ratify the Istanbul Convention on Violence against Women. Malta also announced that, by amending the Criminal Code, it would be prohibiting punishment in all forms, both in the home and in alternative care settings, thereby confirming that proper respect for human rights, in particular, for the rights of the child, requires that children should never undergo corporal punishment. To this end, this new legislation in Malta has considered reference to ‘bounds of reasonable chastisement’ as no longer acceptable.
947. The delegation noted that issues regarding the right to life and sexual and reproductive health were comprehensively addressed in the National Report; in the Opening Statement and subsequent explanations delivered by the delegation during the working group, as well as in the Malta’s written replies submitted in response to the recommendations.
2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
948. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Malta, 7 delegations made statements.
949. Djibouti noted with appreciation the measures taken by Malta to improve the Criminal Code in order to enhance access to justice and the realisation of rights of the child. It commended Malta on the acceptance of the recommendations regarding the detention of migrants, which demonstrated the willingness of the Government to address the challenges in this area. Djibouti encouraged Malta to continue its efforts undertaken in this area. It reiterated its appeal to the international community to support Malta so the Government has various means to ensure the rights of migrants.
950. Libya noted with appreciation the efforts that had been taken by Malta to advance human rights as well as strengthen legislation in this area. It commended the Government on the measures that had been taken in order to bring its legislation in line with the international human rights instruments. Libya also commended Malta on ratifying majority of the international human rights treaties.
951. The Republic of Moldova commended Malta on its actions aiming at promoting and protecting human rights. It noted with appreciation Malta’s acceptance of the recommendations put forward by the Republic of Moldova in the area of combating human trafficking. The Republic of Moldova noted positively the amendments to the Criminal Code, envisaging compensation for victims of human trafficking.
952. Togo noted with satisfaction the willingness of the Government to promote and protect human rights despite the numerous challenges existing at national and international level. It commended Malta on its policies regarding the protection of the rights of migrants. Togo encouraged Malta to pursue actions aiming to rescue migrants who attempt to cross the Mediterranean Sea. It noted with appreciation that Malta had accepted a large number of recommendations that was put forward in the working group in 2013.
953. Algeria noted with satisfaction the acceptance by Malta two recommendations to combat all forms of discrimination and to ensure further the enjoyment of the rights of migrants. It expressed confidence that measures that had been already undertaken or had been planned would have a positive impact on the promotion and promotion of human rights.
954. The Council of Europe evoked the recommendations made to Malta by various monitoring bodies of the Council of Europe. Among the issues raised in those recommendations, it highlighted 3 priority areas: rights of irregular migrants and asylum seekers; problems related to xenophobia, discrimination and lack of integration of immigrants; and problems related to the access to courts. The Council of Europe commended Malta on measures that had been taken in order to address the issues raised by those monitoring bodies. It also noted with satisfaction the measures that had been taken to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence.
955. Cuba highlighted progress made by Malta in several sectors, including the protection of the rights of persons with disability. At the same time, Malta had faced challenges in the field of human rights as noted in the national report. Cuba noted with satisfaction that Malta accepted 3 recommendations put forward by Cuba; took measures to fully ensure the rights of migrants and to combat racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance as well as attached greater importance in the fulfilment of social and economic rights.
3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
956. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Malta, 4 other stakeholders made statements.

957. Action Canada for Population and Development was concerned about women’s access to reproductive health care services and in particular to the legal provisions regulating the right to terminate a pregnancy. It stated that women could not access a legal termination under any circumstances and were subject to criminal charges if they did so. The Action Canada for Population and Development stated that Malta refused to acknowledge the positive obligations under CEDAW to guarantee women equal access to health services and access to safe and legal abortion. The national sexual rights policy and strategy had not contained provisions on the access of women to legal abortion. It urged the Government to recognise access to abortion as a critical human rights issue and to review its legislation regarding abortion and, as a minimum, to amend existing laws to ensure that women are not criminalised for undergoing an abortion.
958. Amnesty International noted that Malta accepted a recommendation to continue its cooperation with neighbouring countries regarding rescue operations at sea and expressed its commitment to continue to abide by its international obligations and to cooperate with neighbouring countries. Amnesty International urged Malta to guarantee access, in all cases, to asylum and protection from removal to a country where there is a real risk of persecution or other serious human rights abuses. Malta must also commit to never resorting to push-backs or collective expulsions. It also urged Malta to ensure full accountability and transparency with regard to the incident of October 2013 when a shipwreck occurred in Malta’s search and rescue zone causing the death of hundreds of asylum-seekers.
959. Recontre Africane pour la defense de droits de l’homme (RADDHO) positively noted that Malta had implemented recommendations of the previous UPR and consulted with the civil society and other stakeholders in this process. It, however, remained concerned by the inhumane treatment of African asylum seekers and migrants, particularly regarding the detention policy of migrants who seek protection under international norms. It urged the Government to fully ensure that the rights of asylum seekers and migrants are protected. The detention conditions must be improved and the duration of the detention of the asylum seekers must be minimized. It called on the Government to exert its utmost efforts in creating conducive environment for asylum seekers and migrants in its territory. RADDHO invited the Government to ratify the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and the Members of their Families, and to intensify its efforts to curtail the development of racism and xenophobia in the country.
960. Human Rights Watch noted positively the steps undertaken by Malta since the previous UPR to improve its reception system for asylum seekers. However, it noted with regret that Malta continued to subject migrants and asylum seekers arriving by boat to automatic detention. In line with the 2013 judgement of the European Court of Human rights and a number of recommendations put forward during the UPR, Malta must end its practice of automatic detention and improve safeguards and conditions of detainees. Human Rights Watch also stated that Malta should revise its age determination policies to give unaccompanied migrant children the benefit of the doubt, treating them as a child and releasing them from detention until found not be children.
4. Concluding remarks of the State under review

961. The President stated that based on the information provided out of 134 recommendations received Malta accepted 73 and noted the rest of the recommendations.
962. In concluding, the delegation expressed appreciation and gratitude to all those who collaborated with the delegation throughout the past months and to all those delegations and NGOs who sought to enlighten the Government further with their constructive recommendations.
Israel

963. The review of Israel was held on 29 October 2013 in conformity with all the relevant provisions contained in relevant Council resolutions and decisions, and was based on the following documents:
(a) The national report submitted by Israel in accordance with the annex to Council resolution 5/1, paragraph 15 (a) (A/HRC/WG.6/17/ISR/1);
(b) The compilation prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (b) (A/HRC/WG.6/15/ISR/2, A/HRC/WG.6/17/ISR/2 and Corr. 1);
(c) The summary prepared by OHCHR in accordance with paragraph 15 (c) (A/HRC/WG.6/15/ISR/3 and Corr.1 and A/HRC/WG.6/17/ISR/3).
964. At its 53rd meeting, on 27 March 2014, the Council considered and adopted the outcome of the review of Israel (see section C below).
965. The outcome of the review of Israel comprises the report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review (A/HRC/25/15), the views of Israel concerning the recommendations and/or conclusions, as well as its voluntary commitments and replies presented before the adoption of the outcome by the plenary to questions or issues that were not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue in the Working Group (see also A/HRC/25/15/Add.1).
1. Views expressed by the State under review on the recommendations and/or conclusions as well as on its voluntary commitments and on the outcome
966. Pursuant to Israel’s letter of 24 March 2014 and on its behalf, the President of the Human Rights Council stated that, as previously announced, Israel was not in a position to send a delegation to Geneva for the session of the Human Rights Council, due to an on-going labour strike in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
967. The President indicated that Israel had submitted an addendum to the Working Group report, which was circulated to the Council in accordance with the usual procedure, and which clarified the position of Israel in light of the recommendations received during their review by the Working Group. The President also drew the attention of the Council to additional information contained within an annex to the addendum to the working group report, which is also available on the universal periodic review website.
968. On behalf of Israel, the President read the following statement, as contained in Israel’s letter of 24 March 2014 addressed to him by Col. Dr. Eran Lerman, Deputy for Foreign Policy and International Affairs:
“The State of Israel has carefully reviewed the 237 recommendations received during our second cycle Universal Periodic Review (UPR) held on 29 October 2013, which were summarized in the report of the Working Group on the UPR (A/HRC/25/15), and was happy to submit to you our document regarding the State of Israel’s Universal Periodic Review – Second Cycle.
As you know, the State of Israel is deeply committed to the UPR. Following the Working Group’s report, relevant government ministries, as well as civil society organizations, were consulted in the process of drafting the replies to each of the observations and recommendations received. As a result of these consultations, we were pleased to report that Israel had been able to support 105 recommendations, either in whole or in part.
Unfortunately, due to an on-going labour strike in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our representatives will not be able to participate in the scheduled dialogue with the Council and to present our views on conclusions and/or recommendations, voluntary commitments and replies. We apologize for the inconvenience and wish to take this opportunity to renew the assurance of our highest consideration.”
969. The Human Rights Council President concluded that of the total number of 244 recommendations received during the Working Group, Israel had identified in the Addendum document 54 recommendations that fully enjoyed the support of Israel. All other recommendations were thus noted.
2. Views expressed by Member and observer States of the Council on the review outcome
970. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Israel, 9 delegations made statements.
971. Pakistan took note of Israel’s UPR outcome report. It regretted that Israel has not implemented recommendations made during the first cycle. Pakistan expressed concern at the rejection of recommendations, including those which contained the term of state of Palestine. It called upon Israel to fulfil its obligations under international law, including human rights and international humanitarian law, and implement all United Nations Security Council, General Assembly and Human Rights Council resolutions. It also called upon Israel to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territories. Pakistan urged Israel to implement all recommendations.
972. The Syrian Arab Republic presented recommendations regarding applying United Nations resolutions relevant to the Occupied Arab Territories on the hope that the Council with its different mechanisms could contribute to the implementation of those resolutions, or reduce impact of the occupation. Syria stated that the language of the Israeli occupation did not reflect serious interest to engage with the Council and the responses proved lack of will to implement them. Accordingly, Syria recognised that it is not concerned with the report. It supported the point of order made previously by Pakistan.
973. The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland welcomed Israel’s participation in the UPR process. It regretted Israel was unable to be present but indicated that it did not characterise absence due to a strike as non-cooperation. It welcomed some positive steps since Israel’s last UPR but remained deeply concerned about the human rights situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territories. It encouraged Israel to adopt the recommendations made during the UPR, including ending the use of solitary confinement for children in military detention.
974. The United States of America stated that Israel was justifiably proud of its democratic traditions and values. It encouraged Israel to implement the recommendations it had made, which pertained to women’s rights, equitable allocation of resources to Arab Israeli and Bedouin communities, an efficient refugee status processing and detention adjudication for asylum seekers and migrants. It was concerned that some states had issued recommendations that fell outside the scope and mandate of the Council and the UPR process and should only be addressed by the Israeli and Palestinian parties jointly as a part of the process of direct bilateral negotiations.
975. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela expressed disappointment for the lack of will and disposition by Israel to avoid the numerous and systematic human rights violations it commits. It urged Israel, inter alia, to respect the right to self-determination of the State of Palestine, end its illegal occupation, detain colonization with illegal settlements, end the inhuman blockade in Gaza, and put an end to the illegal detention and torture of Palestinians, and the criminal military attacks in which thousands of innocents have died. It urged Israel to show its real commitment with human rights by complying with the recommendations from the community of nations.
976. Canada stated that as a stable democracy with a robust system of rule of law, despite the bias that is often expressed against it by the Council, Israel has a great deal to contribute to discussions, of which itself and those under its jurisdiction are the preliminary beneficiaries. It welcomed Israel’s commitment to implement accepted recommendations, including those proposed by Canada, which pertain to efforts to ensure non-discrimination particularly in the areas of access to justice, property rights and housing rights, additional measures to improve the status of women and to improve the promotion and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities.
977. Cuba regretted Israel’s excuse not to participate in the adoption of its UPR. It stated that the illegal occupation of Palestinian and Arab territories amounts to the biggest human rights violations that should be addressed by the Council in the context of Israel’s UPR. It regretted that Israel had not considered the majority of recommendations made by Cuba, specifically those oriented towards, inter alia, ending the occupation of all Arab and Palestinian Territories, including the Syrian Golan; guaranteeing full access of the Palestinian population to all basic services; and ending military attacks against the civilian population. It urged Israel to comply with international humanitarian law norms.
978. Egypt deplored Israel’s absence. It noted Israel’s rejection of recommendations relevant to ending the occupation of Palestine and other Arab Territories. It reiterated recommendations, including on : policies that continue to violate human rights including on the status of Al-Aqsa Mosque; the occupation of Arab Territories; the right of the Palestinian People to self-determination; the settlements in the Arab territories; the violation of religious sites; political prisoners and access by representatives of humanitarian agencies to them; the attacks against Gaza and the blockade; the lack of implementation of the ICJ advisory opinion concerning the separation Wall and the abusive practices against the Palestinian citizens.
979. Montenegro welcomed the universal periodic review outcome of Israel and commended the presentation on its views on conclusions and recommendations made during the review. It noted that the UPR represents an excellent opportunity for countries to make progress on a number of important human rights issues and it strongly encouraged Israel to continue to engage positively with the universal periodic review process. It wished Israel every success in addressing the challenges in the field of promotion and protection of human rights, and their efforts towards the full implementation of the accepted recommendations.
3. General comments made by other relevant stakeholders
980. During the adoption of the outcome of the review of Israel, 8 other stakeholders made statements.

981. Touro Institute on Human Rights and the Holocaust stated that while this mechanism was called universal it was not true that the Council applied the same rules to Israel as to any other State. The Council’s permanent agenda included Israel-bashing at every session. It was no secret that the biggest fans of the UPR were States with the worse human rights records. Regardless of their record, states emerged from the UPR with a polite knock of the gavel, without resolution or rapporteur appointed. The Council was about to adopt five resolutions condemning only Israel, and nothing on several Council members. That was discrimination.
982. The International Commission of Jurists called on Israel to implement recommendations to abide by international humanitarian and international human rights law. It urged Israel to end its unlawful settlement policy, dismantle existing settlements and ensure that there are no new settlements. Israel should take effective measures to prevent “price-tagging” and other crimes committed against Palestinians. It called on Israel to dismantle the separation wall on Palestinian land. Recommendations for abolishing relevant laws and policies on administrative detention should be fully implemented. Israel must ensure that the internment of those subject to administrative detention is reviewed by independent and impartial courts.
983. International Federation for Human Rights Leagues (FIDH) deplored Israel's position that human rights conventions to which Israel is a party to, did not apply in the Occupied Palestinian Territories. Israel should act on recommendations regarding the activities of business enterprises in Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territories, involved in violations of international laws. Israel failed to investigate and prosecute the on-going pillage of Palestinian natural resources and appropriation of Palestinian territories. FIDH welcomed Israeli's acceptance of Austria's recommendation on ensuring a free environment for human rights defenders.
984. Human Rights Watch stated that Israeli authorities did not held accountable security members forces responsible for apparently unlawful killings of Palestinian civilians, and failed to enforce the law against Israeli settlers in Occupied Territories who had harmed Palestinians and their properties. In 2013, Israeli authorities illegally demolished the homes of more than 1,100 Palestinians in the West Bank. Israel continued to build illegal settlement housing units and other infrastructure. Israeli authorities continued to arbitrarily detain Palestinians, including administrative detention. Bedouin citizens of Israel who lived in “unrecognized” villages suffered discriminatory home demolitions. Israeli authorities should release asylum seekers from detention and fairly examine their claims.
985. Al-Haq, Law in the Service of Man stated that the recent killing by Israeli soldiers of a Palestinian child was the eight incident in four weeks in which the Israeli military forces used excessive force against Palestinian population. While Israel had approved 184 new settlement housing units in Beit Hanina town, house demolition and settlement expansion had more than doubled in the last 8 months. Israel refused support to recommendations calling for the respect of international human rights law in the Occupied Territories, to cooperate with United Nations mechanisms, to end practices of discrimination and racial discrimination, and to ensure that Palestinian children were not subject of discriminatory treatment in military prisons.
986. Amnesty International (AI) was concerned that Israel’s national report omitted any reference to the situation of human rights in the OPT, despite the international community’s agreement that human rights treaties signed by Israel and the Fourth Geneva Convention apply to the OPT, including the Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem. AI indicated that Israel should seriously engage with all recommendations relating to Israel’s conduct in the OPT, as well as those relevant to the territory of Israel itself. AI looked forward, together with Israeli civil society actors, to monitoring the implementation of the recommendations once the outcome is adopted.
987. International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists commended the working group for its work as well as Israel for its decision to participate in the UPR process and retain its cooperation with the Council. It noted however, that beside the population living in the OPT, there are more than seven million citizens in Israel, all of whom deserve that the UPR process will be concerned with the promotion of their human rights. It hoped that in the future, the Council’s platform will be better used for the promotion of human rights of all persons under Israel’s jurisdiction, as is occurring in the UPR process of other States.
988. UN Watch hoped that the strike by Israel’s foreign service would soon end so that Israel could continue to engage with the Human Rights Council and its mechanisms. It called on Israel to pay attention to valuable comments and recommendations contained in its report, such as on improving the status of women, eliminating discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity and fighting against manifestations of religious intolerance. According to UN Watch, the Council’s selective and politicized treatment of Israel was reflected in paras. 6 and 7 of the report and in having before it five separate resolutions condemning Israel.
4. Concluding remarks
989. Having all statements been delivered, the President proposed that the Human Rights Council adopt the decision relating to the universal periodic review outcome document of Israel.
B. General debate on agenda item 6
990. At the 43rd meeting, on 21 March 2014, the Human Rights Council held a general debate on agenda item 6, during which the following made statements:
(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: China, Czech Republic, Estonia, Ethiopia (also on behalf of the Group of African States), Greece[39] (on behalf of European Union, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Montenegro, Republic of Moldova and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia), Ireland, Morocco (also on behalf of Armenia, Bahrain, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Finland, Gabon, Germany, Guinea, Ireland, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Madagascar, Maldives, Mauritius, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Poland, Qatar, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slovakia, Sudan, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Yemen and the State of Palestine), Romania, Sierra Leone, United States of America, Uruguay39 (also on behalf of Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxemburg, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia, Turkey and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland), Yemen39 (on behalf of the Group of Arab States);
(b) Representatives of observer States: Libya, Poland, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: International Organization of la Francophonie;
(c) Observers for national human rights institutions: Australian Human Rights Commission (by video message), Irish Human Rights Commission;

(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Amnesty International, CIVICUS - World Alliance for Citizen Participation, Colombian Commission of Jurists, International Commission of Jurists, Istituto Internazionale Maria Ausiliatrice delle Salesiane di Don Bosco (also on behalf of Associazione Comunita Papa Giovanni XXIII, Catholic International Education Office, Company of the Daughters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul, Congregation of Our Lady of Charity of the Good Shepherd, Dominicans for Justice and Peace - Order of Preachers, Edmund Rice International Limited, Fondazione Marista per la Solidarietà Internazionale ONLUS, Franciscans International, Good Neighbors International, International Catholic Child Bureau, International Volunteerism Organization for Women, Education and Development – VIDES and Mouvement International d'Apostolate des Milieux Sociaux Independants), Organization for Defending Victims of Violence, Rencontre Africaine pour la defense des droits de l'homme, UPR Info (also on behalf of Article 19 - International Centre Against Censorship, CIVICUS - World Alliance for Citizen Participation, International Federation for Human Rights Leagues (FIDH), International Movement Against All Forms of Discrimination and Racism (IMADR), International Volunteerism Organization for Women, Education and Development – VIDES, Istituto Internazionale Maria Ausiliatrice delle Salesiane di Don Bosco, Reporters Sans Frontiers International - Reporters Without Borders International and Save the Children International), Verein Sudwind Entwicklungspolitik.
991. At the same meeting, statements in exercise of the right of reply were made by the representatives of China, Nepal, Saudi Arabia and the Syrian Arab Republic.
992. At the same meeting, statements in exercise of a second right of reply were made by the representatives of Saudi Arabia and the Syrian Arab Republic.
C. Consideration of and action on draft proposals
Saudi Arabia

993. At the 38th meeting, on 19 March 2014, the Council adopted, without a vote, decision 25/101 on the outcome of the review of Saudi Arabia.
Senegal

994. At its 38th meeting, on 19 March 2014, the Council adopted, without a vote, decision 25/102 on the outcome of the review of Senegal.
Nigeria

