Combating intolerance, negative stereotyping and stigmatization of, and discrimination, incitement to violence and violence against persons based on religion or belief

1050. At the 56th meeting, on 28 March 2014, the representative of Pakistan introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.41, sponsored by Pakistan, on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and co-sponsored by the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Subsequently, Australia, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Nicaragua, Thailand and Uruguay joined the sponsors.

1051. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Italy, on behalf of the European Union, made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

1052. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution.

1053. At the same meeting, draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.41 was adopted without a vote (resolution 25/34).



X. Technical assistance and capacity-building
A. Interactive dialogue with special procedures mandate holders
Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in Côte d’Ivoire
1054. At the 49th meeting, on 25 March 2014, the Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in Côte d’Ivoire, Doudou Diène, presented his report (A/HRC/25/73).
1055. At the same meeting, the representative of Côte d’Ivoire made a statement as the State concerned.

1056. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the Independent Expert questions:

(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Algeria, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia (on behalf of the Group of African States), France, Italy, Morocco, United States of America;
(b) Representatives of observer States: Australia, Belgium, Central African Republic, Egypt, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Sudan, Togo;
(c) Observer for United Nations entities, specialized agencies and related organizations: United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF);

(d) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;

(e) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Action internationale pour la paix et le développement dans la région des Grands Lacs, Comité International pour le Respect et l'Application de la Charte Africaine des Droits de l'Homme et des Peuples (CIRAC), Franciscans International, International Federation for Human Rights Leagues, World Organisation Against Torture.

1057. At the same meeting, the Independent Expert answered questions and made his concluding remarks.

Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in Haiti
1058. At the 49th meeting, on 25 March 2014, the Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in Haiti, Gustavo Gallón, presented his report (A/HRC/25/71).
1059. At the same meeting, the representative of Haiti made a statement as the State concerned.

1060. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the Independent Expert questions:

(a) Representatives of States Members of the Human Rights Council: Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica (on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States), Cuba, France, Mexico, Morocco, United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of);

(b) Representatives of observer States: Australia, Norway, Togo;
(c) Observer for an intergovernmental organization: European Union;

(d) Observers for non-governmental organizations: Amnesty International, Conectas Direitos Humanos (also on behalf of Centro de Estudios Legales y Sociales (CELS) Asociación Civil).
1061. At the same meeting, the Independent Expert answered questions and made his concluding remarks.

Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in Mali

1062. At the 50th meeting, on 26 March 2014, the Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in Mali, Suliman Baldo, presented his report (A/HRC/25/72).
1063. At the same meeting, the representative of Mali made a statement as the State concerned.

1064. During the ensuing interactive dialogue at the same meeting, the following made statements and asked the Independent Expert questions:

