Mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders

273. At the 55th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Norway introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.24, sponsored by Norway and co-sponsored by Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, Uruguay and the State of Palestine. Subsequently, Armenia, Benin, Cabo Verde, Canada, Djibouti, Guinea, Haiti, Indonesia, Maldives, Malta, Morocco, Nigeria, Panama, the Republic of Korea, San Marino, Serbia, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo and Ukraine joined the sponsors.

274. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Norway orally revised the draft resolution.

275. At the same meeting, the Russian Federation withdrew its amendments A/HRC/25/L.44 and A/HRC/25/L.45 to this draft resolution.

276. Also at the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation introduced amendments A/HRC/25/L.46 and A/HRC/25/L.47 to the draft resolution A/HRC/24/L.24. A/HRC/25/L.46 was sponsored by Algeria, Bahrain, Belarus, China, Cuba, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. A/HRC/25/L.47 was sponsored by Algeria, Bahrain, Belarus, China, Cuba, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Namibia, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Viet Nam.

277. At the same meeting, the representative of the Russian Federation introduced the oral amendments to add preambular paragraphs 3 bis and 3 ter to the draft resolution as orally revised.

278. Also at the same meeting, the representatives of Cuba, France, Maldives, Mexico, the Russian Federation and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland made general comments in relation to the draft resolution as orally revised and the amendments.

279. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution and amendments.

280. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Ireland a recorded vote was taken on amendment A/HRC/25/L.46. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, China, Cuba, Ethiopia, India, Kenya, Kuwait, Pakistan, Philippines, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, Sierra Leone, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Congo, Gabon, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Namibia



281. Amendment A/HRC/25/L.46 was rejected by 15 votes to 27, with 5 abstentions.

282. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Ireland a recorded vote was taken on amendment A/HRC/25/L.47. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, China, Cuba, Ethiopia, India, Kenya, Kuwait, Namibia, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Chile, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Philippines, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, Sierra Leone, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Brazil, Gabon, Indonesia, Kazakhstan

283. Amendment A/HRC/25/L.47 was rejected by 15 votes to 28, with 4 abstentions.

284. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Ireland a recorded vote was taken on the oral amendment to add preambular paragraph 3 bis. The voting was as follows:
