The promotion and protection of human rights in the context of peaceful protests

309. At the 56th meeting, on 28 March 28 2014, the representative of Switzerland introduced draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.20, sponsored by Costa Rica, Switzerland and Turkey and co-sponsored by Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Colombia, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, the Netherlands, Norway, Panama, Poland, the Republic of Moldova, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Tunisia and the United States of America. Subsequently, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Cyprus, France, Honduras, Israel, Japan, Malta, Montenegro, Morocco, New Zealand, Peru, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Senegal, Slovenia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay joined the sponsors.

310. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Costa Rica orally revised the draft resolution.

311. At the same meeting, South Africa withdrew its amendment A/HRC/25/L.51 to this draft resolution.

312. Also at the same meeting, the representative of South Africa introduced amendments A/HRC/25/L.48, A/HRC/25/L.49, A/HRC/25/L.50 and A/HRC/25/L.52 to the draft resolution A/HRC/25/L.20. Amendments A/HRC/24/L.48, A/HRC/24/L.49 and A/HRC/24/L.50 were sponsored by Algeria, Bahrain, Belarus, China, Cuba, Egypt, Ethiopia, India, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka joined the sponsors. Amendment A/HRC/24/L.52 was sponsored by Algeria, Bahrain, Belarus, China, Cuba, Egypt, India, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). Subsequently, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka joined the sponsors.

313. At the same meeting, the representatives of Benin, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Maldives and the United States of America made general comments in relation to the draft resolution.

314. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the attention of the Human Rights Council was drawn to the estimated administrative and programme budget implications of the draft resolution. The Chief of OHCHR Finance and Budget Section made a statement in relation to the budgetary implications of the draft resolution.

315. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Costa Rica a recorded vote was taken on amendment A/HRC/25/L.48. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, China, Cuba, Ethiopia, India, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Namibia, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Brazil, Burkina Faso, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon, Indonesia, Morocco, Philippines, Sierra Leone

316. Amendment A/HRC/25/L.48 was rejected by 16 votes to 22, with 9 abstentions.

317. At the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Costa Rica a recorded vote was taken on amendment A/HRC/25/L.49. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, China, Cuba, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Namibia, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam

Against:

Argentina, Austria, Benin, Botswana, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Maldives, Mexico, Montenegro, Peru, Republic of Korea, Romania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining:

Brazil, Burkina Faso, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon, Morocco, Philippines, Sierra Leone

318. Amendment A/HRC/25/L.49 was rejected by 17 votes to 22, with 8 abstentions.

319. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the representative of Costa Rica a recorded vote was taken on amendment A/HRC/25/L.50. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Algeria, China, Congo, Cuba, Ethiopia, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Namibia, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam
